---
type: reference
stage: Verify
group: Testing
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#designated-technical-writers
---

# Repositories Analytics **(PREMIUM)**

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/215104) in [GitLab Premium](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 13.4.
> - It's [deployed behind a feature flag](../../feature_flags.md), enabled by default.
> - It's enabled on GitLab.com.
> - It's recommended for production use.
> - For GitLab self-managed instances, GitLab administrators can opt to [disable it](#enable-or-disable-repositories-analytics). **(CORE ONLY)**

CAUTION: **Warning:**
This feature might not be available to you. Check the **version history** note above for details.

You can get a CSV of the code coverage data for all of the projects in your group. This report has a maximum of 1000 records. To get the report:

1. Go to your group's **Analytics > Repositories** page
1. Click **Download historic test coverage data (.csv)**,
1. In the popup, select the projects you want to include in the report.
1. Select the date range for the report from the preset options.
1. Click **Download test coverage data (.csv)**.

The projects dropdown shows up to 100 projects from your group. If the project you want to check is not in the dropdown list, you can select **All projects** to download the report for all projects in your group, including any projects that are not listed. There is a plan to improve this behavior in this [related issue](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/250684).

For each day that a coverage report was generated by a job in a project's pipeline, there will be a row in the CSV which includes:

- The date when the coverage job ran
- The name of the job that generated the coverage report
- The name of the project
- The coverage value

If the project's code coverage was calculated more than once in a day, we will take the last value from that day.

## Enable or disable Repositories Analytics **(CORE ONLY)**

Repositories Analytics is under development but ready for production use.
It is deployed behind a feature flag that is **enabled by default**.
[GitLab administrators with access to the GitLab Rails console](../../../administration/feature_flags.md)
can opt to disable it.

To enable it:

```ruby
Feature.enable(:group_coverage_reports)
```

To disable it:

```ruby
Feature.disable(:group_coverage_reports)
```

<!-- ## Troubleshooting

Include any troubleshooting steps that you can foresee. If you know beforehand what issues
one might have when setting this up, or when something is changed, or on upgrading, it's
important to describe those, too. Think of things that may go wrong and include them here.
This is important to minimize requests for support, and to avoid doc comments with
questions that you know someone might ask.

Each scenario can be a third-level heading, e.g. `### Getting error message X`.
If you have none to add when creating a doc, leave this section in place
but commented out to help encourage others to add to it in the future. -->
