doc/user/project/pages/lets_encrypt_for_gitlab_pages.md, before:

---
description: "How to secure GitLab Pages websites with Let's Encrypt."
type: howto
last_updated: 2019-06-04
---

# Let's Encrypt for GitLab Pages

If you have a GitLab Pages website served under your own domain,
you might want to secure it with a SSL/TSL certificate.

[Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org) is a free, automated, and
open source Certificate Authority.

## Requirements

To follow along with this tutorial, we assume you already have:

- Created a [project](getting_started_part_two.md) in GitLab which
  contains your website's source code.
- Acquired a domain (`example.com`) and added a [DNS entry](custom_domains_ssl_tls_certification/index.md#set-up-pages-with-a-custom-domain)
  pointing it to your Pages website.
- [Added your domain to your Pages project](custom_domains_ssl_tls_certification/index.md#steps)
  and verified your ownership.
- Cloned your project into your computer.
- Your website up and running, served under HTTP protocol at `http://example.com`.

## Obtaining a Let's Encrypt certificate

Once you have the requirements addressed, follow the instructions
below to learn how to obtain the certificate.

NOTE: **Note:**
The instructions below were tested on macOS Mojave. For other
operating systems the steps might be slightly different. Follow the
[CertBot instructions](https://certbot.eff.org/) according to your OS.

1. On your computer, open a terminal and navigate to your repository's
   root directory:

   ```bash
   cd path/to/dir
   ```

1. Install CertBot (the tool Let's Encrypt uses to issue certificates):

   ```bash
   brew install certbot
   ```

1. Request a certificate for your domain (`example.com`) and
   provide an email account (`your@email.com`) to receive notifications:

   ```bash
   sudo certbot certonly -a manual -d example.com --email your@email.com
   ```

   Alternatively, you can register without adding an e-mail account,
   but you won't be notified about the certificate expiration's date:

   ```bash
   sudo certbot certonly -a manual -d example.com --register-unsafely-without-email
   ```

   TIP: **Tip:**
   Read through CertBot's documentation on their
   [command line options](https://certbot.eff.org/docs/using.html#certbot-command-line-options).

1. You'll be prompted with a message to agree with their terms.
   Press `A` to agree and `Y` to let they log your IP.

   CertBot will then prompt you with the following message:

   ```bash
   Create a file containing just this data:

   Rxnv6WKo95hsuLVX3osmT6LgmzsJKSaK9htlPToohOP.HUGNKk82jlsmOOfphlt8Jy69iuglsn095nxOMH9j3Yb

   And make it available on your web server at this URL:

   http://example.com/.well-known/acme-challenge/Rxnv6WKo95hsuLVX3osmT6LgmzsJKSaK9htlPToohOP

   Press Enter to Continue
   ```

1. **Do not press Enter yet.** Let's Encrypt will need to verify your
   domain ownership before issuing the certificate. To do so, create 3
   consecutive directories under your website's root:
   `/.well-known/acme-challenge/Rxnv6WKo95hsuLVX3osmT6LgmzsJKSaK9htlPToohOP/`
   and add to the last folder an `index.html` file containing the content
   referred on the previous prompt message:

   ```bash
   Rxnv6WKo95hsuLVX3osmT6LgmzsJKSaK9htlPToohOP.HUGNKk82jlsmOOfphlt8Jy69iuglsn095nxOMH9j3Yb
   ```

   Note that this file needs to be accessed under
   `http://example.com/.well-known/acme-challenge/Rxnv6WKo95hsuLVX3osmT6LgmzsJKSaK9htlPToohOP`
   to allow Let's Encrypt to verify the ownership of your domain,
   therefore, it needs to be part of the website content under the
   repo's [`public`](index.md#how-it-works) folder.

1. Add, commit, and push the file into your repo in GitLab. Once the pipeline
   passes, press **Enter** on your terminal to continue issuing your
   certificate. CertBot will then prompt you with the following message:

   ```bash
   Waiting for verification...
   Cleaning up challenges

   IMPORTANT NOTES:
    - Congratulations! Your certificate and chain have been saved at:
      /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/fullchain.pem
      Your key file has been saved at:
      /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/privkey.pem
      Your cert will expire on 2019-03-12. To obtain a new or tweaked
      version of this certificate in the future, simply run certbot
      again. To non-interactively renew *all* of your certificates, run
      "certbot renew"
    - If you like Certbot, please consider supporting our work by:

      Donating to ISRG / Let's Encrypt:   https://letsencrypt.org/donate
      Donating to EFF:                    https://eff.org/donate-le
   ```

## Add your certificate to GitLab Pages

Now that your certificate has been issued, let's add it to your Pages site:

1. Back at GitLab, navigate to your project's **Settings > Pages**,
   find your domain and click **Details** and **Edit** to add your certificate.
1. From your terminal, copy and paste the certificate into the first field
   **Certificate (PEM)**:

   ```bash
   sudo cat /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/fullchain.pem | pbcopy
   ```

1. Copy and paste the private key into the second field **Key (PEM)**:

   ```bash
   sudo cat /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/privkey.pem | pbcopy
   ```

1. Click **Save changes** to apply them to your website.
1. Wait a few minutes for the configuration changes to take effect.
1. Visit your website at `https://example.com`.

To force `https` connections on your site, navigate to your
project's **Settings > Pages** and check **Force HTTPS (requires
valid certificates)**.

## Renewal

Let's Encrypt certificates expire every 90 days and you'll have to
renew them periodically. To renew all your certificates at once, run:

```bash
sudo certbot renew
```

Commit message:

Add docs for Let's Encrypt integration
* Add deprecation warning to old integration
* Add user docs
* Add admin docs

doc/user/project/pages/lets_encrypt_for_gitlab_pages.md, after:

---
description: "How to secure GitLab Pages websites with Let's Encrypt (manual process, deprecated)."
type: howto
last_updated: 2019-07-15
---

# Let's Encrypt for GitLab Pages (manual process, deprecated)

CAUTION: **Warning:**
This method is still valid but was **deprecated** in favor of the
[Let's Encrypt integration](custom_domains_ssl_tls_certification/lets_encrypt_integration.md)
introduced in GitLab 12.1.

If you have a GitLab Pages website served under your own domain,
you might want to secure it with a SSL/TSL certificate.

[Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org) is a free, automated, and
open source Certificate Authority.

## Requirements

To follow along with this tutorial, we assume you already have:

- Created a [project](getting_started_part_two.md) in GitLab which
  contains your website's source code.
- Acquired a domain (`example.com`) and added a [DNS entry](custom_domains_ssl_tls_certification/index.md#set-up-pages-with-a-custom-domain)
  pointing it to your Pages website.
- [Added your domain to your Pages project](custom_domains_ssl_tls_certification/index.md#steps)
  and verified your ownership.
- Cloned your project into your computer.
- Your website up and running, served under HTTP protocol at `http://example.com`.

## Obtaining a Let's Encrypt certificate

Once you have the requirements addressed, follow the instructions
below to learn how to obtain the certificate.

NOTE: **Note:**
The instructions below were tested on macOS Mojave. For other
operating systems the steps might be slightly different. Follow the
[CertBot instructions](https://certbot.eff.org/) according to your OS.

1. On your computer, open a terminal and navigate to your repository's
   root directory:

   ```bash
   cd path/to/dir
   ```

1. Install CertBot (the tool Let's Encrypt uses to issue certificates):

   ```bash
   brew install certbot
   ```

1. Request a certificate for your domain (`example.com`) and
   provide an email account (`your@email.com`) to receive notifications:

   ```bash
   sudo certbot certonly -a manual -d example.com --email your@email.com
   ```

   Alternatively, you can register without adding an e-mail account,
   but you won't be notified about the certificate expiration's date:

   ```bash
   sudo certbot certonly -a manual -d example.com --register-unsafely-without-email
   ```

   TIP: **Tip:**
   Read through CertBot's documentation on their
   [command line options](https://certbot.eff.org/docs/using.html#certbot-command-line-options).

1. You'll be prompted with a message to agree with their terms.
   Press `A` to agree and `Y` to let they log your IP.

   CertBot will then prompt you with the following message:

   ```bash
   Create a file containing just this data:

   Rxnv6WKo95hsuLVX3osmT6LgmzsJKSaK9htlPToohOP.HUGNKk82jlsmOOfphlt8Jy69iuglsn095nxOMH9j3Yb

   And make it available on your web server at this URL:

   http://example.com/.well-known/acme-challenge/Rxnv6WKo95hsuLVX3osmT6LgmzsJKSaK9htlPToohOP

   Press Enter to Continue
   ```

1. **Do not press Enter yet.** Let's Encrypt will need to verify your
   domain ownership before issuing the certificate. To do so, create 3
   consecutive directories under your website's root:
   `/.well-known/acme-challenge/Rxnv6WKo95hsuLVX3osmT6LgmzsJKSaK9htlPToohOP/`
   and add to the last folder an `index.html` file containing the content
   referred on the previous prompt message:

   ```bash
   Rxnv6WKo95hsuLVX3osmT6LgmzsJKSaK9htlPToohOP.HUGNKk82jlsmOOfphlt8Jy69iuglsn095nxOMH9j3Yb
   ```

   Note that this file needs to be accessed under
   `http://example.com/.well-known/acme-challenge/Rxnv6WKo95hsuLVX3osmT6LgmzsJKSaK9htlPToohOP`
   to allow Let's Encrypt to verify the ownership of your domain,
   therefore, it needs to be part of the website content under the
   repo's [`public`](index.md#how-it-works) folder.

1. Add, commit, and push the file into your repo in GitLab. Once the pipeline
   passes, press **Enter** on your terminal to continue issuing your
   certificate. CertBot will then prompt you with the following message:

   ```bash
   Waiting for verification...
   Cleaning up challenges

   IMPORTANT NOTES:
    - Congratulations! Your certificate and chain have been saved at:
      /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/fullchain.pem
      Your key file has been saved at:
      /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/privkey.pem
      Your cert will expire on 2019-03-12. To obtain a new or tweaked
      version of this certificate in the future, simply run certbot
      again. To non-interactively renew *all* of your certificates, run
      "certbot renew"
    - If you like Certbot, please consider supporting our work by:

      Donating to ISRG / Let's Encrypt:   https://letsencrypt.org/donate
      Donating to EFF:                    https://eff.org/donate-le
   ```

## Add your certificate to GitLab Pages

Now that your certificate has been issued, let's add it to your Pages site:

1. Back at GitLab, navigate to your project's **Settings > Pages**,
   find your domain and click **Details** and **Edit** to add your certificate.
1. From your terminal, copy and paste the certificate into the first field
   **Certificate (PEM)**:

   ```bash
   sudo cat /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/fullchain.pem | pbcopy
   ```

1. Copy and paste the private key into the second field **Key (PEM)**:

   ```bash
   sudo cat /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/privkey.pem | pbcopy
   ```

1. Click **Save changes** to apply them to your website.
1. Wait a few minutes for the configuration changes to take effect.
1. Visit your website at `https://example.com`.

To force `https` connections on your site, navigate to your
project's **Settings > Pages** and check **Force HTTPS (requires
valid certificates)**.

## Renewal

Let's Encrypt certificates expire every 90 days and you'll have to
renew them periodically. To renew all your certificates at once, run:

```bash
sudo certbot renew
```
