doc/user/project/issues/csv_export.md, before:

# Export Issues to CSV

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ee/merge_requests/1126) in [GitLab Starter 9.0](https://about.gitlab.com/2017/03/22/gitlab-9-0-released/#export-issues-ees-eep).

Issues can be exported as CSV from GitLab and are sent to your default notification email as an attachment.

## Overview

**Export Issues to CSV** enables you and your team to export all the data collected from issues into
a **[comma-separated values](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comma-separated_values)** (CSV) file,
which stores tabular data in plain text.

> _CSVs are a handy way of getting data from one program to another where one program cannot read the other ones normal output._ [Ref](https://www.quora.com/What-is-a-CSV-file-and-its-uses)

CSV files can be used with any plotter or spreadsheet-based program, such as Microsoft Excel,
Open Office Calc, or Google Spreadsheets.

## Use cases

Among numerous use cases for exporting issues for CSV, we can name a few:

- Make a snapshot of issues for offline analysis or to communicate with other teams who may not be in GitLab
- Create diagrams, graphs, and charts from the CSV data
- Present the data in any other format for auditing or sharing reasons
- Import the issues elsewhere to a system outside of GitLab
- Long-term issues' data analysis with multiple snapshots created along the time
- Use the long-term data to gather relevant feedback given in the issues, and improve your product based on real metrics

## Choosing which issues to include

From the issues page you can narrow down which issues to export using the search bar, along with the All/Open/Closed tabs. All issues returned will be exported, including those not shown on the first page.

![CSV export button](img/csv_export_button.png)

You will be asked to confirm the number of issues and email address for the export, after which the email will begin being prepared.

![CSV export modal dialog](img/csv_export_modal.png)

## Format

> **Time Estimate** and **Time Spent** columns were [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ee/merge_requests/2627) in GitLab Starter 10.0.
>
> The **Weight** column was [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ee/merge_requests/5300) in GitLab Starter 10.8.

Data will be encoded with a comma as the column delimiter, with `"` used to quote fields if needed, and newlines to separate rows. The first row will be the headers, which are listed in the following table along with a description of the values:


| Column  | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| Issue ID | Issue `iid` |
| URL | A link to the issue on GitLab |
| Title | Issue `title` |
| State | `Open` or `Closed` |
| Description | Issue `description` |
| Author | Full name of the issue author |
| Author Username | Username of the author, with the `@` symbol omitted |
| Assignee | Full name of the issue assignee |
| Assignee Username | Username of the author, with the `@` symbol omitted |
| Confidential | `Yes` or `No` |
| Due Date | Formated as `YYYY-MM-DD` |
| Created At (UTC) | Formated as `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS` |
| Updated At (UTC) | Formated as `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS` |
| Milestone | Title of the issue milestone |
| Weight | Issue weight |
| Labels | Title of any labels joined with a `,` |
| Time Estimate | [Time estimate](../../../workflow/time_tracking.md#estimates) in seconds |
| Time Spent | [Time spent](../../../workflow/time_tracking.md#time-spent) in seconds |


## Limitations

As the issues will be sent as an email attachment, there is a limit on how much data can be exported. Currently this limit is 20MB to ensure successful delivery across a range of email providers. If this limit is reached we suggest narrowing the search before export, perhaps by exporting open and closed issues separately.

Commit message:

Issue export CSV includes "Locked"

doc/user/project/issues/csv_export.md, after:

# Export Issues to CSV

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ee/merge_requests/1126) in [GitLab Starter 9.0](https://about.gitlab.com/2017/03/22/gitlab-9-0-released/#export-issues-ees-eep).

Issues can be exported as CSV from GitLab and are sent to your default notification email as an attachment.

## Overview

**Export Issues to CSV** enables you and your team to export all the data collected from issues into
a **[comma-separated values](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comma-separated_values)** (CSV) file,
which stores tabular data in plain text.

> _CSVs are a handy way of getting data from one program to another where one program cannot read the other ones normal output._ [Ref](https://www.quora.com/What-is-a-CSV-file-and-its-uses)

CSV files can be used with any plotter or spreadsheet-based program, such as Microsoft Excel,
Open Office Calc, or Google Spreadsheets.

## Use cases

Among numerous use cases for exporting issues for CSV, we can name a few:

- Make a snapshot of issues for offline analysis or to communicate with other teams who may not be in GitLab
- Create diagrams, graphs, and charts from the CSV data
- Present the data in any other format for auditing or sharing reasons
- Import the issues elsewhere to a system outside of GitLab
- Long-term issues' data analysis with multiple snapshots created along the time
- Use the long-term data to gather relevant feedback given in the issues, and improve your product based on real metrics

## Choosing which issues to include

From the issues page you can narrow down which issues to export using the search bar, along with the All/Open/Closed tabs. All issues returned will be exported, including those not shown on the first page.

![CSV export button](img/csv_export_button.png)

You will be asked to confirm the number of issues and email address for the export, after which the email will begin being prepared.

![CSV export modal dialog](img/csv_export_modal.png)

## Format

> **Time Estimate** and **Time Spent** columns were [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ee/merge_requests/2627) in GitLab Starter 10.0.
>
> **Weight** and **Locked** columns were [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ee/merge_requests/5300) in GitLab Starter 10.8.

Data will be encoded with a comma as the column delimiter, with `"` used to quote fields if needed, and newlines to separate rows. The first row will be the headers, which are listed in the following table along with a description of the values:


| Column  | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| Issue ID | Issue `iid` |
| URL | A link to the issue on GitLab |
| Title | Issue `title` |
| State | `Open` or `Closed` |
| Description | Issue `description` |
| Author | Full name of the issue author |
| Author Username | Username of the author, with the `@` symbol omitted |
| Assignee | Full name of the issue assignee |
| Assignee Username | Username of the author, with the `@` symbol omitted |
| Confidential | `Yes` or `No` |
| Locked | `Yes` or `No` |
| Due Date | Formated as `YYYY-MM-DD` |
| Created At (UTC) | Formated as `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS` |
| Updated At (UTC) | Formated as `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS` |
| Milestone | Title of the issue milestone |
| Weight | Issue weight |
| Labels | Title of any labels joined with a `,` |
| Time Estimate | [Time estimate](../../../workflow/time_tracking.md#estimates) in seconds |
| Time Spent | [Time spent](../../../workflow/time_tracking.md#time-spent) in seconds |


## Limitations

As the issues will be sent as an email attachment, there is a limit on how much data can be exported. Currently this limit is 20MB to ensure successful delivery across a range of email providers. If this limit is reached we suggest narrowing the search before export, perhaps by exporting open and closed issues separately.
