doc/user/project/issues/due_dates.md, before:

# Due dates

> [Introduced][ce-3614] in GitLab 8.7.

Please read through the [GitLab Issue Documentation](index.md) for an overview on GitLab Issues.

Due dates can be used in issues to keep track of deadlines and make sure
features are shipped on time. Due dates require at least [Reporter permissions][permissions]
to be able to edit them. On the contrary, they can be seen by everybody.

## Setting a due date

When creating or editing an issue, you can see the due date field from where
a calendar will appear to help you choose the date you want. To remove it,
select the date text and delete it.

![Create a due date](img/due_dates_create.png)

A quicker way to set a due date is via the issue sidebar. Simply expand the
sidebar and select **Edit** to pick a due date or remove the existing one.
Changes are saved immediately.

![Edit a due date via the sidebar](img/due_dates_edit_sidebar.png)

## Making use of due dates

Issues that have a due date can be distinctively seen in the issue tracker
displaying a date next to them. Issues where the date is overdue will have
the icon and the date colored red. You can sort issues by those that are
_Due soon_ or _Due later_ from the dropdown menu in the right.

![Issues with due dates in the issues index page](img/due_dates_issues_index_page.png)

Due dates also appear in your [todos list](../../../workflow/todos.md).

![Issues with due dates in the todos](img/due_dates_todos.png)

The day before an open issue is due, an email will be sent to all participants
of the issue.

[ce-3614]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/merge_requests/3614
[permissions]: ../../permissions.md#project

Commit message:

Clarify that due date emails are in the server's timezone

doc/user/project/issues/due_dates.md, after:

# Due dates

> [Introduced][ce-3614] in GitLab 8.7.

Please read through the [GitLab Issue Documentation](index.md) for an overview on GitLab Issues.

Due dates can be used in issues to keep track of deadlines and make sure
features are shipped on time. Due dates require at least [Reporter permissions][permissions]
to be able to edit them. On the contrary, they can be seen by everybody.

## Setting a due date

When creating or editing an issue, you can see the due date field from where
a calendar will appear to help you choose the date you want. To remove it,
select the date text and delete it.

![Create a due date](img/due_dates_create.png)

A quicker way to set a due date is via the issue sidebar. Simply expand the
sidebar and select **Edit** to pick a due date or remove the existing one.
Changes are saved immediately.

![Edit a due date via the sidebar](img/due_dates_edit_sidebar.png)

## Making use of due dates

Issues that have a due date can be distinctively seen in the issue tracker
displaying a date next to them. Issues where the date is overdue will have
the icon and the date colored red. You can sort issues by those that are
_Due soon_ or _Due later_ from the dropdown menu in the right.

![Issues with due dates in the issues index page](img/due_dates_issues_index_page.png)

Due dates also appear in your [todos list](../../../workflow/todos.md).

![Issues with due dates in the todos](img/due_dates_todos.png)

The day before an open issue is due, an email will be sent to all participants
of the issue. Both the due date and the day before are calculated using the
server's timezone.

[ce-3614]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/merge_requests/3614
[permissions]: ../../permissions.md#project
