doc/user/project/settings/import_export.md, before:

# Project import/export

>**Notes:**
>
>  - [Introduced][ce-3050] in GitLab 8.9.
>  - Importing will not be possible if the import instance version is lower
>    than that of the exporter.
>  - For existing installations, the project import option has to be enabled in
>    application settings (`/admin/application_settings`) under 'Import sources'.
>    You will have to be an administrator to enable and use the import functionality.
>  - You can find some useful raketasks if you are an administrator in the
>    [import_export](../../../administration/raketasks/project_import_export.md)
>    raketask.
>  - The exports are stored in a temporary [shared directory][tmp] and are deleted
>    every 24 hours by a specific worker.

Existing projects running on any GitLab instance or GitLab.com can be exported
with all their related data and be moved into a new GitLab instance.

## Exported contents

The following items will be exported:

- Project and wiki repositories
- Project uploads
- Project configuration including web hooks and services
- Issues with comments, merge requests with diffs and comments, labels, milestones, snippets,
  and other project entities

The following items will NOT be exported:

- Build traces and artifacts
- LFS objects

## Exporting a project and its data

1. Go to the project settings page by clicking on **Edit Project**:

    ![Project settings button](img/settings_edit_button.png)

1. Scroll down to find the **Export project** button:

    ![Export button](img/import_export_export_button.png)

1. Once the export is generated, you should receive an e-mail with a link to
   download the file:

    ![Email download link](img/import_export_mail_link.png)

1. Alternatively, you can come back to the project settings and download the
   file from there, or generate a new export. Once the file available, the page
   should show the **Download export** button:

    ![Download export](img/import_export_download_export.png)

## Importing the project

1. The new GitLab project import feature is at the far right of the import
   options when creating a New Project. Make sure you are in the right namespace
   and you have entered a project name. Click on **GitLab export**:

    ![New project](img/import_export_new_project.png)

1. You can see where the project will be imported to. You can now select file
   exported previously:

    ![Select file](img/import_export_select_file.png)

1. Click on **Import project** to begin importing. Your newly imported project
   page will appear soon.

[ce-3050]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/3050
[tmp]: ../../../development/shared_files.md

Commit message:

Fixed label color issue and added Import/Export versioning table

doc/user/project/settings/import_export.md, after:

# Project import/export

>**Notes:**
>
>  - [Introduced][ce-3050] in GitLab 8.9.
>  - Importing will not be possible if the import instance version differs from
>    that of the exporter.
>  - For existing installations, the project import option has to be enabled in
>    application settings (`/admin/application_settings`) under 'Import sources'.
>    You will have to be an administrator to enable and use the import functionality.
>  - You can find some useful raketasks if you are an administrator in the
>    [import_export](../../../administration/raketasks/project_import_export.md)
>    raketask.
>  - The exports are stored in a temporary [shared directory][tmp] and are deleted
>    every 24 hours by a specific worker.

Existing projects running on any GitLab instance or GitLab.com can be exported
with all their related data and be moved into a new GitLab instance.

## Version history

| GitLab version | Import/Export version |
| -------- | -------- |
| 8.12.0 to current  | 0.1.4    |
| 8.10.3   | 0.1.3    |
| 8.10.0   | 0.1.2    |
| 8.9.5    | 0.1.1    |
| 8.9.0    | 0.1.0    |
 
 > The table reflects what GitLab version we updated the Import/Export version at.
 > For instance, 8.10.3 and 8.11 will have the same Import/Export version (0.1.3)
 > and the exports between them will be compatible.

## Exported contents

The following items will be exported:

- Project and wiki repositories
- Project uploads
- Project configuration including web hooks and services
- Issues with comments, merge requests with diffs and comments, labels, milestones, snippets,
  and other project entities

The following items will NOT be exported:

- Build traces and artifacts
- LFS objects

## Exporting a project and its data

1. Go to the project settings page by clicking on **Edit Project**:

    ![Project settings button](img/settings_edit_button.png)

1. Scroll down to find the **Export project** button:

    ![Export button](img/import_export_export_button.png)

1. Once the export is generated, you should receive an e-mail with a link to
   download the file:

    ![Email download link](img/import_export_mail_link.png)

1. Alternatively, you can come back to the project settings and download the
   file from there, or generate a new export. Once the file available, the page
   should show the **Download export** button:

    ![Download export](img/import_export_download_export.png)

## Importing the project

1. The new GitLab project import feature is at the far right of the import
   options when creating a New Project. Make sure you are in the right namespace
   and you have entered a project name. Click on **GitLab export**:

    ![New project](img/import_export_new_project.png)

1. You can see where the project will be imported to. You can now select file
   exported previously:

    ![Select file](img/import_export_select_file.png)

1. Click on **Import project** to begin importing. Your newly imported project
   page will appear soon.

[ce-3050]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/3050
[tmp]: ../../../development/shared_files.md
