doc/security/unlock_user.md, before:

---
type: howto
---

# How to unlock a locked user

To unlock a locked user, first log into your server with root privileges.

Start a Ruby on Rails console with this command:

```bash
gitlab-rails console production
```

Wait until the console has loaded.

There are multiple ways to find your user. You can search for email or username.

```bash
user = User.where(id: 1).first
```

or

```bash
user = User.find_by(email: 'admin@local.host')
```

Unlock the user:

```bash
user.unlock_access!
```

Exit the console, the user should now be able to log in again.

<!-- ## Troubleshooting

Include any troubleshooting steps that you can foresee. If you know beforehand what issues
one might have when setting this up, or when something is changed, or on upgrading, it's
important to describe those, too. Think of things that may go wrong and include them here.
This is important to minimize requests for support, and to avoid doc comments with
questions that you know someone might ask.

Each scenario can be a third-level heading, e.g. `### Getting error message X`.
If you have none to add when creating a doc, leave this section in place
but commented out to help encourage others to add to it in the future. -->

Commit message:

Clean-up some confusing info from security docs

doc/security/unlock_user.md, after:

---
type: howto
---

# How to unlock a locked user from the command line

After six failed login attempts a user gets in a locked state.

To unlock a locked user:

1. SSH into your GitLab server.
1. Start a Ruby on Rails console:

   ```sh
   ## For Omnibus GitLab
   sudo gitlab-rails console production

   ## For installations from source
   sudo -u git -H bundle exec rails console RAILS_ENV=production
   ```

1. Find the user to unlock. You can search by email or ID.

   ```ruby
   user = User.find_by(email: 'admin@local.host')
   ```

   or

   ```ruby
   user = User.where(id: 1).first
   ```

1. Unlock the user:

   ```ruby
   user.unlock_access!
   ```

1. Exit the console with <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>d</kbd>

The user should now be able to log in.

<!-- ## Troubleshooting

Include any troubleshooting steps that you can foresee. If you know beforehand what issues
one might have when setting this up, or when something is changed, or on upgrading, it's
important to describe those, too. Think of things that may go wrong and include them here.
This is important to minimize requests for support, and to avoid doc comments with
questions that you know someone might ask.

Each scenario can be a third-level heading, e.g. `### Getting error message X`.
If you have none to add when creating a doc, leave this section in place
but commented out to help encourage others to add to it in the future. -->
