doc/user/project/members/index.md, before:

# Project's members

You can manage the groups and users and their access levels in all of your
projects. You can also personalize the access level you give each user,
per-project.

You should have Maintainer or Owner [permissions](../../permissions.md) to add
or import a new user to your project.

To view, edit, add, and remove project's members, go to your
project's **Settings > Members**.

## Add a user

Right next to **People**, start typing the name or username of the user you
want to add.

![Search for people](img/add_user_search_people.png)

Select the user and the [permission level](../../permissions.md)
that you'd like to give the user. Note that you can select more than one user.

![Give user permissions](img/add_user_give_permissions.png)

Once done, hit **Add users to project** and they will be immediately added to
your project with the permissions you gave them above.

![List members](img/add_user_list_members.png)

From there on, you can either remove an existing user or change their access
level to the project.

## Import users from another project

You can import another project's users in your own project by hitting the
**Import members** button on the upper right corner of the **Members** menu.

In the dropdown menu, you can see only the projects you are Maintainer on.

![Import members from another project](img/add_user_import_members_from_another_project.png)

Select the one you want and hit **Import project members**. A flash message
notifying you that the import was successful will appear, and the new members
are now in the project's members list. Notice that the permissions that they
had on the project you imported from are retained.

![Members list of new members](img/add_user_imported_members.png)

## Invite people using their e-mail address

If a user you want to give access to doesn't have an account on your GitLab
instance, you can invite them just by typing their e-mail address in the
user search field.

![Invite user by mail](img/add_user_email_search.png)

As you can imagine, you can mix inviting multiple people and adding existing
GitLab users to the project.

![Invite user by mail ready to submit](img/add_user_email_ready.png)

Once done, hit **Add users to project** and watch that there is a new member
with the e-mail address we used above. From there on, you can resend the
invitation, change their access level, or even delete them.

![Invite user members list](img/add_user_email_accept.png)

Once the user accepts the invitation, they will be prompted to create a new
GitLab account using the same e-mail address the invitation was sent to.

## Request access to a project

As a project owner you can enable or disable non members to request access to
your project. Go to the project settings and click on **Allow users to request access**.

As a user, you can request to be a member of a project. Go to the project you'd
like to be a member of, and click the **Request Access** button on the right
side of your screen.

![Request access button](img/request_access_button.png)

Project owners & maintainers will be notified of your request and will be able to approve or
decline it on the members page.

![Manage access requests](img/access_requests_management.png)

If you change your mind before your request is approved, just click the
**Withdraw Access Request** button.

![Withdraw access request button](img/withdraw_access_request_button.png)

## Share project with group

Alternatively, you can [share a project with an entire group](share_project_with_groups.md) instead of adding users one by one.

Commit message:

Limit access request email to 10 most recently active owners/maintainers
This change limits the number of emails
for new access requests notifications to
10 most recently active owners/maintainers

doc/user/project/members/index.md, after:

# Project's members

You can manage the groups and users and their access levels in all of your
projects. You can also personalize the access level you give each user,
per-project.

You should have Maintainer or Owner [permissions](../../permissions.md) to add
or import a new user to your project.

To view, edit, add, and remove project's members, go to your
project's **Settings > Members**.

## Add a user

Right next to **People**, start typing the name or username of the user you
want to add.

![Search for people](img/add_user_search_people.png)

Select the user and the [permission level](../../permissions.md)
that you'd like to give the user. Note that you can select more than one user.

![Give user permissions](img/add_user_give_permissions.png)

Once done, hit **Add users to project** and they will be immediately added to
your project with the permissions you gave them above.

![List members](img/add_user_list_members.png)

From there on, you can either remove an existing user or change their access
level to the project.

## Import users from another project

You can import another project's users in your own project by hitting the
**Import members** button on the upper right corner of the **Members** menu.

In the dropdown menu, you can see only the projects you are Maintainer on.

![Import members from another project](img/add_user_import_members_from_another_project.png)

Select the one you want and hit **Import project members**. A flash message
notifying you that the import was successful will appear, and the new members
are now in the project's members list. Notice that the permissions that they
had on the project you imported from are retained.

![Members list of new members](img/add_user_imported_members.png)

## Invite people using their e-mail address

If a user you want to give access to doesn't have an account on your GitLab
instance, you can invite them just by typing their e-mail address in the
user search field.

![Invite user by mail](img/add_user_email_search.png)

As you can imagine, you can mix inviting multiple people and adding existing
GitLab users to the project.

![Invite user by mail ready to submit](img/add_user_email_ready.png)

Once done, hit **Add users to project** and watch that there is a new member
with the e-mail address we used above. From there on, you can resend the
invitation, change their access level, or even delete them.

![Invite user members list](img/add_user_email_accept.png)

Once the user accepts the invitation, they will be prompted to create a new
GitLab account using the same e-mail address the invitation was sent to.

## Request access to a project

As a project owner you can enable or disable non members to request access to
your project. Go to the project settings and click on **Allow users to request access**.

As a user, you can request to be a member of a project. Go to the project you'd
like to be a member of, and click the **Request Access** button on the right
side of your screen.

![Request access button](img/request_access_button.png)

Once access is requested:

- Up to ten project maintainers are notified of your request via email.
  Email is sent to the most recently active project maintainers.
- Any project maintainer can approve or decline your request on the members page.

NOTE: **Note:**
If a project does not have any maintainers, the notification is sent to the
most recently active owners of the project's group.

![Manage access requests](img/access_requests_management.png)

If you change your mind before your request is approved, just click the
**Withdraw Access Request** button.

![Withdraw access request button](img/withdraw_access_request_button.png)

## Share project with group

Alternatively, you can [share a project with an entire group](share_project_with_groups.md) instead of adding users one by one.
