doc/api/templates/gitignores.md, before:

# `.gitignore` API

## List `.gitignore` templates

Get all `.gitignore` templates.

```
GET /templates/gitignores
```

```bash
curl https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/templates/gitignores
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "key": "Actionscript",
    "name": "Actionscript"
  },
  {
    "key": "Ada",
    "name": "Ada"
  },
  {
    "key": "Agda",
    "name": "Agda"
  },
  {
    "key": "Android",
    "name": "Android"
  },
  {
    "key": "AppEngine",
    "name": "AppEngine"
  },
  {
    "key": "AppceleratorTitanium",
    "name": "AppceleratorTitanium"
  },
  {
    "key": "ArchLinuxPackages",
    "name": "ArchLinuxPackages"
  },
  {
    "key": "Autotools",
    "name": "Autotools"
  },
  {
    "key": "C",
    "name": "C"
  },
  {
    "key": "C++",
    "name": "C++"
  },
  {
    "key": "CFWheels",
    "name": "CFWheels"
  },
  {
    "key": "CMake",
    "name": "CMake"
  },
  {
    "key": "CUDA",
    "name": "CUDA"
  },
  {
    "key": "CakePHP",
    "name": "CakePHP"
  },
  {
    "key": "ChefCookbook",
    "name": "ChefCookbook"
  },
  {
    "key": "Clojure",
    "name": "Clojure"
  },
  {
    "key": "CodeIgniter",
    "name": "CodeIgniter"
  },
  {
    "key": "CommonLisp",
    "name": "CommonLisp"
  },
  {
    "key": "Composer",
    "name": "Composer"
  },
  {
    "key": "Concrete5",
    "name": "Concrete5"
  }
]
```

## Single `.gitignore` template

Get a single `.gitignore` template.

```
GET /templates/gitignores/:key
```

| Attribute  | Type   | Required | Description |
| ---------- | ------ | -------- | ----------- |
| `key`      | string | yes      | The key of the `.gitignore` template |

```bash
curl https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/templates/gitignores/Ruby
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "name": "Ruby",
  "content": "*.gem\n*.rbc\n/.config\n/coverage/\n/InstalledFiles\n/pkg/\n/spec/reports/\n/spec/examples.txt\n/test/tmp/\n/test/version_tmp/\n/tmp/\n\n# Used by dotenv library to load environment variables.\n# .env\n\n## Specific to RubyMotion:\n.dat*\n.repl_history\nbuild/\n*.bridgesupport\nbuild-iPhoneOS/\nbuild-iPhoneSimulator/\n\n## Specific to RubyMotion (use of CocoaPods):\n#\n# We recommend against adding the Pods directory to your .gitignore. However\n# you should judge for yourself, the pros and cons are mentioned at:\n# https://guides.cocoapods.org/using/using-cocoapods.html#should-i-check-the-pods-directory-into-source-control\n#\n# vendor/Pods/\n\n## Documentation cache and generated files:\n/.yardoc/\n/_yardoc/\n/doc/\n/rdoc/\n\n## Environment normalization:\n/.bundle/\n/vendor/bundle\n/lib/bundler/man/\n\n# for a library or gem, you might want to ignore these files since the code is\n# intended to run in multiple environments; otherwise, check them in:\n# Gemfile.lock\n# .ruby-version\n# .ruby-gemset\n\n# unless supporting rvm < 1.11.0 or doing something fancy, ignore this:\n.rvmrc\n"
}
```

Commit message:

Added SSoT front and back matter
These docs are straightforward API reference material
and needed only to have document type header and
troubleshooting footer added for the SSoT effort.

doc/api/templates/gitignores.md, after:

---
type: reference
---

# .gitignore API

In GitLab, there is an API endpoint available for `.gitignore`. For more
information on `gitignore`, see the
[Git documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore).

## List `.gitignore` templates

Get all `.gitignore` templates.

```
GET /templates/gitignores
```

```bash
curl https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/templates/gitignores
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "key": "Actionscript",
    "name": "Actionscript"
  },
  {
    "key": "Ada",
    "name": "Ada"
  },
  {
    "key": "Agda",
    "name": "Agda"
  },
  {
    "key": "Android",
    "name": "Android"
  },
  {
    "key": "AppEngine",
    "name": "AppEngine"
  },
  {
    "key": "AppceleratorTitanium",
    "name": "AppceleratorTitanium"
  },
  {
    "key": "ArchLinuxPackages",
    "name": "ArchLinuxPackages"
  },
  {
    "key": "Autotools",
    "name": "Autotools"
  },
  {
    "key": "C",
    "name": "C"
  },
  {
    "key": "C++",
    "name": "C++"
  },
  {
    "key": "CFWheels",
    "name": "CFWheels"
  },
  {
    "key": "CMake",
    "name": "CMake"
  },
  {
    "key": "CUDA",
    "name": "CUDA"
  },
  {
    "key": "CakePHP",
    "name": "CakePHP"
  },
  {
    "key": "ChefCookbook",
    "name": "ChefCookbook"
  },
  {
    "key": "Clojure",
    "name": "Clojure"
  },
  {
    "key": "CodeIgniter",
    "name": "CodeIgniter"
  },
  {
    "key": "CommonLisp",
    "name": "CommonLisp"
  },
  {
    "key": "Composer",
    "name": "Composer"
  },
  {
    "key": "Concrete5",
    "name": "Concrete5"
  }
]
```

## Single `.gitignore` template

Get a single `.gitignore` template.

```
GET /templates/gitignores/:key
```

| Attribute  | Type   | Required | Description |
| ---------- | ------ | -------- | ----------- |
| `key`      | string | yes      | The key of the `.gitignore` template |

```bash
curl https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/templates/gitignores/Ruby
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "name": "Ruby",
  "content": "*.gem\n*.rbc\n/.config\n/coverage/\n/InstalledFiles\n/pkg/\n/spec/reports/\n/spec/examples.txt\n/test/tmp/\n/test/version_tmp/\n/tmp/\n\n# Used by dotenv library to load environment variables.\n# .env\n\n## Specific to RubyMotion:\n.dat*\n.repl_history\nbuild/\n*.bridgesupport\nbuild-iPhoneOS/\nbuild-iPhoneSimulator/\n\n## Specific to RubyMotion (use of CocoaPods):\n#\n# We recommend against adding the Pods directory to your .gitignore. However\n# you should judge for yourself, the pros and cons are mentioned at:\n# https://guides.cocoapods.org/using/using-cocoapods.html#should-i-check-the-pods-directory-into-source-control\n#\n# vendor/Pods/\n\n## Documentation cache and generated files:\n/.yardoc/\n/_yardoc/\n/doc/\n/rdoc/\n\n## Environment normalization:\n/.bundle/\n/vendor/bundle\n/lib/bundler/man/\n\n# for a library or gem, you might want to ignore these files since the code is\n# intended to run in multiple environments; otherwise, check them in:\n# Gemfile.lock\n# .ruby-version\n# .ruby-gemset\n\n# unless supporting rvm < 1.11.0 or doing something fancy, ignore this:\n.rvmrc\n"
}
```

<!-- ## Troubleshooting

Include any troubleshooting steps that you can foresee. If you know beforehand what issues
one might have when setting this up, or when something is changed, or on upgrading, it's
important to describe those, too. Think of things that may go wrong and include them here.
This is important to minimize requests for support, and to avoid doc comments with
questions that you know someone might ask.

Each scenario can be a third-level heading, e.g. `### Getting error message X`.
If you have none to add when creating a doc, leave this section in place
but commented out to help encourage others to add to it in the future. -->
