doc/gitlab-geo/database.md, before:

# GitLab Geo database replication

This document describes the minimal steps you have to take in order to
replicate your GitLab database into another server. You may have to change
some values according to your database setup, how big it is, etc.

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**

- [PostgreSQL replication](#postgresql-replication)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Step 1. Configure the primary server](#step-1-configure-the-primary-server)
  - [Step 2. Configure the secondary server](#step-2-configure-the-secondary-server)
  - [Step 3. Initiate the replication process](#step-3-initiate-the-replication-process)
- [MySQL replication](#mysql-replication)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## PostgreSQL replication

The GitLab primary node where the write operations happen will connect to
`primary` database server, and the secondary ones which are read-only will
connect to `secondary` database servers (which are read-only too).

>**Note:**
In many databases documentation you will see `primary` being references as `master`
and `secondary` as either `slave` or `standby` server (read-only).

### Prerequisites

The following guide assumes that:

- You are using PostgreSQL 9.1 or later which includes the
  [`pg_basebackup` tool][pgback]. As of this writing, the latest Omnibus
  packages (8.5) have version 9.2.
- You have a primary server already set up (the GitLab server you are
  replicating from), running PostgreSQL 9.2.x, and you
  have a new secondary server set up on the same OS and PostgreSQL version. If
  you are using Omnibus, make sure the GitLab version is the same on all nodes.
- The IP of the primary server for our examples will be `1.2.3.4`, whereas the
  secondary's IP will be `5.6.7.8`.

[pgback]: http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.2/static/app-pgbasebackup.html

### Step 1. Configure the primary server

**For Omnibus installations**

1. SSH into your GitLab primary server and login as root:

    ```
    sudo -i
    ```

1. Omnibus GitLab has already a replication user called `gitlab_replicator`.
   You must set its password manually. Replace `thepassword` with a strong
   password:

    ```bash
    sudo -u gitlab-psql /opt/gitlab/embedded/bin/psql -h /var/opt/gitlab/postgresql \
         -d template1 \
         -c "ALTER USER gitlab_replicator WITH ENCRYPTED PASSWORD 'thepassword'"
    ```

1. Edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` and add the following:

    ```ruby
    postgresql['listen_address'] = "1.2.3.4"
    postgresql['trust_auth_cidr_addresses'] = ['127.0.0.1/32','1.2.3.4/32']
    postgresql['md5_auth_cidr_addresses'] = ['5.6.7.8/32']
    postgresql['sql_replication_user'] = "gitlab_replicator"
    postgresql['wal_level'] = "hot_standby"
    postgresql['max_wal_senders'] = 10
    postgresql['wal_keep_segments'] = 10
    postgresql['hot_standby'] = "on"
    ```

    Where `1.2.3.4` is the public IP address of the primary server, and `5.6.7.8`
    the public IP address of the secondary one. If you want to add another
    secondary, the relevant setting would look like:

    ```ruby
    postgresql['md5_auth_cidr_addresses'] = ['5.6.7.8/32','11.22.33.44/32']
    ```

    Edit the `wal` values as you see fit.

1. Save the file and [reconfigure GitLab][] for the changes to take effect.
1. Now that the PostgreSQL server is set up to accept remote connections, run
   `netstat -plnt` to make sure that PostgreSQL is listening to the server's
   public IP.
1. Continue to [set up the secondary server](#step-2-configure-the-secondary-server).


---

**For installations from source**

1. SSH into your GitLab primary server and login as root:

    ```
    sudo -i
    ```

1. Create a replication user named `gitlab_replicator`:

    ```bash
    sudo -u postgres psql -c "CREATE USER gitlab_replicator REPLICATION ENCRYPTED PASSWORD 'thepassword';"
    ```

1. Edit `postgresql.conf` to configure the primary server for streaming replication
   (for Debian/Ubuntu that would be `/etc/postgresql/9.2/main/postgresql.conf`):

    ```bash
    listen_address = '1.2.3.4'
    wal_level = hot_standby
    max_wal_senders = 5
    checkpoint_segments = 10
    wal_keep_segments = 10
    hot_standby = on
    ```

    Edit the `wal` values as you see fit.

1. Set the access control on the primary to allow TCP connections using the
   server's public IP and set the connection from the secondary to require a
   password.  Edit `pg_hba.conf` (for Debian/Ubuntu that would be
   `/etc/postgresql/9.2/main/pg_hba.conf`):

    ```bash
    host    all             all                      127.0.0.1/32    trust
    host    all             all                      1.2.3.4/32      trust
    host    replication     gitlab_replicator        5.6.7.8/32      md5
    ```

    Where `1.2.3.4` is the public IP address of the primary server, and `5.6.7.8`
    the public IP address of the secondary one. If you want to add another
    secondary, add one more row like the replication one and change the IP
    address:

      ```bash
      host    all             all                      127.0.0.1/32    trust
      host    all             all                      1.2.3.4/32      trust
      host    replication     gitlab_replicator        5.6.7.8/32      md5
      host    replication     gitlab_replicator        11.22.33.44/32  md5
      ```

1. Restart PostgreSQL for the changes to take effect.
1. Now that the PostgreSQL server is set up to accept remote connections, run
   `netstat -plnt` to make sure that PostgreSQL is listening to the server's
   public IP.

### Step 2. Configure the secondary server

**For Omnibus installations**

1. SSH into your GitLab primary server and login as root:

    ```
    sudo -i
    ```

1. Test that the remote connection to the primary server works:

     ```
     sudo -u gitlab-psql /opt/gitlab/embedded/bin/psql -h 1.2.3.4 -U gitlab_replicator -d gitlabhq_production -W
     ```

    When prompted enter the password you set in the first step for the
    `gitlab_replicator` user. If all worked correctly, you should see the
    database prompt.

1. Exit the PostgreSQL console:

    ```
    \q
    ```
1. Edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` and add the following:

    ```ruby
    postgresql['wal_level'] = "hot_standby"
    postgresql['max_wal_senders'] = 10
    postgresql['wal_keep_segments'] = 10
    postgresql['hot_standby'] = "on"
    ```

1. [Reconfigure GitLab][] for the changes to take effect.
1. Continue to [initiate the replication process](#step-3-initiate-the-replication-process).

---

**For installations from source**

1. SSH into your database primary server and login as root:

    ```
    sudo -i
    ```

1. Test that the remote connection to the primary server works:

    ```
    sudo -u postgres psql -h 1.2.3.4 -U gitlab_replicator -d gitlabhq_production -W
    ```

    When prompted enter the password you set in the first step for the
    `gitlab_replicator` user. If all worked correctly, you should see the
    database prompt.

1. Exit the PostgreSQL console:

    ```
    \q
    ```

1. Edit `postgresql.conf` to configure the secondary for streaming replication
   (for Debian/Ubuntu that would be `/etc/postgresql/9.2/main/postgresql.conf`):

    ```bash
    wal_level = hot_standby
    max_wal_senders = 5
    checkpoint_segments = 10
    wal_keep_segments = 10
    hot_standby = on
    ```

1. Restart PostgreSQL for the changes to take effect.
1. Continue to [initiate the replication process](#step-3-initiate-the-replication-process).

### Step 3. Initiate the replication process

Below we provide a script that connects to the primary server, replicates the
database and creates the needed files for replication.

The directories used are the defaults that are set up in Omnibus. If you have
changed any defaults or are using a source installation, configure it as you
see fit replacing the directories and paths.

>**Warning:**
Make sure to run this on the **secondary** server as it removes all PostgreSQL's
data before running `pg_basebackup`.

1. SSH into your database primary server and login as root:

    ```
    sudo -i
    ```

1. Save the snippet below in a file, let's say `/tmp/replica.sh`:

    ```bash
    #!/bin/bash

    PORT="5432"
    USER="gitlab_replicator"
    echo Enter ip of primary postgresql server
    read HOST
    echo Enter password for $USER@$HOST
    read -s PASSWORD

    echo Stopping PostgreSQL
    gitlab-ctl stop

    echo Backup postgresql.conf
    sudo -u gitlab-psql mv /var/opt/gitlab/postgresql/data/postgresql.conf /var/opt/gitlab/postgresql/

    echo Cleaning up old cluster directory
    sudo -u gitlab-psql rm -rf /var/opt/gitlab/postgresql/data
    rm -f /tmp/postgresql.trigger

    echo Starting base backup as replicator
    echo Enter password for $USER@$HOST
    sudo -u gitlab-psql /opt/gitlab/embedded/bin/pg_basebackup -h $HOST -D /var/opt/gitlab/postgresql/data -U gitlab_replicator -v -x -P

    echo Writing recovery.conf file
    sudo -u gitlab-psql bash -c "cat > /var/opt/gitlab/postgresql/data/recovery.conf <<- _EOF1_
      standby_mode = 'on'
      primary_conninfo = 'host=$HOST port=$PORT user=$USER password=$PASSWORD'
      trigger_file = '/tmp/postgresql.trigger'
    _EOF1_
    "

    echo Restore postgresql.conf
    sudo -u gitlab-psql mv /var/opt/gitlab/postgresql/postgresql.conf /var/opt/gitlab/postgresql/data/

    echo Starting PostgreSQL
    gitlab-ctl start
    ```

1. Run it with:

    ```
    bash /tmp/replica.sh
    ```

    When prompted, enter the password you set up for the `gitlab_replicator` user.

The replication process is now over.

## MySQL replication

We don't support MySQL replication for GitLab Geo.

[reconfigure GitLab]: ../administration/restart_gitlab.md#omnibus-gitlab-reconfigure

Commit message:

Fix commands pointing to primary/secondary nodes
[ci skip]

doc/gitlab-geo/database.md, after:

# GitLab Geo database replication

This document describes the minimal steps you have to take in order to
replicate your GitLab database into another server. You may have to change
some values according to your database setup, how big it is, etc.

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**

- [PostgreSQL replication](#postgresql-replication)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Step 1. Configure the primary server](#step-1-configure-the-primary-server)
  - [Step 2. Configure the secondary server](#step-2-configure-the-secondary-server)
  - [Step 3. Initiate the replication process](#step-3-initiate-the-replication-process)
- [MySQL replication](#mysql-replication)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## PostgreSQL replication

The GitLab primary node where the write operations happen will connect to
`primary` database server, and the secondary ones which are read-only will
connect to `secondary` database servers (which are read-only too).

>**Note:**
In many databases documentation you will see `primary` being references as `master`
and `secondary` as either `slave` or `standby` server (read-only).

### Prerequisites

The following guide assumes that:

- You are using PostgreSQL 9.1 or later which includes the
  [`pg_basebackup` tool][pgback]. As of this writing, the latest Omnibus
  packages (8.5) have version 9.2.
- You have a primary server already set up (the GitLab server you are
  replicating from), running PostgreSQL 9.2.x, and you
  have a new secondary server set up on the same OS and PostgreSQL version. If
  you are using Omnibus, make sure the GitLab version is the same on all nodes.
- The IP of the primary server for our examples will be `1.2.3.4`, whereas the
  secondary's IP will be `5.6.7.8`.

### Step 1. Configure the primary server

**For Omnibus installations**

1. SSH into your GitLab primary server and login as root:

    ```
    sudo -i
    ```

1. Omnibus GitLab has already a replication user called `gitlab_replicator`.
   You must set its password manually. Replace `thepassword` with a strong
   password:

    ```bash
    sudo -u gitlab-psql /opt/gitlab/embedded/bin/psql -h /var/opt/gitlab/postgresql \
         -d template1 \
         -c "ALTER USER gitlab_replicator WITH ENCRYPTED PASSWORD 'thepassword'"
    ```

1. Edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` and add the following:

    ```ruby
    postgresql['listen_address'] = "1.2.3.4"
    postgresql['trust_auth_cidr_addresses'] = ['127.0.0.1/32','1.2.3.4/32']
    postgresql['md5_auth_cidr_addresses'] = ['5.6.7.8/32']
    postgresql['sql_replication_user'] = "gitlab_replicator"
    postgresql['wal_level'] = "hot_standby"
    postgresql['max_wal_senders'] = 10
    postgresql['wal_keep_segments'] = 10
    postgresql['hot_standby'] = "on"
    ```

    Where `1.2.3.4` is the public IP address of the primary server, and `5.6.7.8`
    the public IP address of the secondary one. If you want to add another
    secondary, the relevant setting would look like:

    ```ruby
    postgresql['md5_auth_cidr_addresses'] = ['5.6.7.8/32','11.22.33.44/32']
    ```

    Edit the `wal` values as you see fit.

1. Save the file and [reconfigure GitLab][] for the changes to take effect.
1. Now that the PostgreSQL server is set up to accept remote connections, run
   `netstat -plnt` to make sure that PostgreSQL is listening to the server's
   public IP.
1. Continue to [set up the secondary server](#step-2-configure-the-secondary-server).

---

**For installations from source**

1. SSH into your database primary server and login as root:

    ```
    sudo -i
    ```

1. Create a replication user named `gitlab_replicator`:

    ```bash
    sudo -u postgres psql -c "CREATE USER gitlab_replicator REPLICATION ENCRYPTED PASSWORD 'thepassword';"
    ```

1. Edit `postgresql.conf` to configure the primary server for streaming replication
   (for Debian/Ubuntu that would be `/etc/postgresql/9.2/main/postgresql.conf`):

    ```bash
    listen_address = '1.2.3.4'
    wal_level = hot_standby
    max_wal_senders = 5
    checkpoint_segments = 10
    wal_keep_segments = 10
    hot_standby = on
    ```

    Edit the `wal` values as you see fit.

1. Set the access control on the primary to allow TCP connections using the
   server's public IP and set the connection from the secondary to require a
   password.  Edit `pg_hba.conf` (for Debian/Ubuntu that would be
   `/etc/postgresql/9.2/main/pg_hba.conf`):

    ```bash
    host    all             all                      127.0.0.1/32    trust
    host    all             all                      1.2.3.4/32      trust
    host    replication     gitlab_replicator        5.6.7.8/32      md5
    ```

    Where `1.2.3.4` is the public IP address of the primary server, and `5.6.7.8`
    the public IP address of the secondary one. If you want to add another
    secondary, add one more row like the replication one and change the IP
    address:

      ```bash
      host    all             all                      127.0.0.1/32    trust
      host    all             all                      1.2.3.4/32      trust
      host    replication     gitlab_replicator        5.6.7.8/32      md5
      host    replication     gitlab_replicator        11.22.33.44/32  md5
      ```

1. Restart PostgreSQL for the changes to take effect.
1. Now that the PostgreSQL server is set up to accept remote connections, run
   `netstat -plnt` to make sure that PostgreSQL is listening to the server's
   public IP.

### Step 2. Configure the secondary server

**For Omnibus installations**

1. SSH into your GitLab secondary server and login as root:

    ```
    sudo -i
    ```

1. Test that the remote connection to the primary server works:

     ```
     sudo -u gitlab-psql /opt/gitlab/embedded/bin/psql -h 1.2.3.4 -U gitlab_replicator -d gitlabhq_production -W
     ```

    When prompted enter the password you set in the first step for the
    `gitlab_replicator` user. If all worked correctly, you should see the
    database prompt.

1. Exit the PostgreSQL console:

    ```
    \q
    ```

1. Edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` and add the following:

    ```ruby
    postgresql['wal_level'] = "hot_standby"
    postgresql['max_wal_senders'] = 10
    postgresql['wal_keep_segments'] = 10
    postgresql['hot_standby'] = "on"
    ```

1. [Reconfigure GitLab][] for the changes to take effect.
1. Continue to [initiate the replication process](#step-3-initiate-the-replication-process).

---

**For installations from source**

1. SSH into your database secondary server and login as root:

    ```
    sudo -i
    ```

1. Test that the remote connection to the primary server works:

    ```
    sudo -u postgres psql -h 1.2.3.4 -U gitlab_replicator -d gitlabhq_production -W
    ```

    When prompted enter the password you set in the first step for the
    `gitlab_replicator` user. If all worked correctly, you should see the
    database prompt.

1. Exit the PostgreSQL console:

    ```
    \q
    ```

1. Edit `postgresql.conf` to configure the secondary for streaming replication
   (for Debian/Ubuntu that would be `/etc/postgresql/9.2/main/postgresql.conf`):

    ```bash
    wal_level = hot_standby
    max_wal_senders = 5
    checkpoint_segments = 10
    wal_keep_segments = 10
    hot_standby = on
    ```

1. Restart PostgreSQL for the changes to take effect.
1. Continue to [initiate the replication process](#step-3-initiate-the-replication-process).

### Step 3. Initiate the replication process

Below we provide a script that connects to the primary server, replicates the
database and creates the needed files for replication.

The directories used are the defaults that are set up in Omnibus. If you have
changed any defaults or are using a source installation, configure it as you
see fit replacing the directories and paths.

>**Warning:**
Make sure to run this on the **secondary** server as it removes all PostgreSQL's
data before running `pg_basebackup`.

1. SSH into your GitLab secondary server and login as root:

    ```
    sudo -i
    ```

1. Save the snippet below in a file, let's say `/tmp/replica.sh`:

    ```bash
    #!/bin/bash

    PORT="5432"
    USER="gitlab_replicator"
    echo Enter ip of primary postgresql server
    read HOST
    echo Enter password for $USER@$HOST
    read -s PASSWORD

    echo Stopping PostgreSQL
    gitlab-ctl stop

    echo Backup postgresql.conf
    sudo -u gitlab-psql mv /var/opt/gitlab/postgresql/data/postgresql.conf /var/opt/gitlab/postgresql/

    echo Cleaning up old cluster directory
    sudo -u gitlab-psql rm -rf /var/opt/gitlab/postgresql/data
    rm -f /tmp/postgresql.trigger

    echo Starting base backup as replicator
    echo Enter password for $USER@$HOST
    sudo -u gitlab-psql /opt/gitlab/embedded/bin/pg_basebackup -h $HOST -D /var/opt/gitlab/postgresql/data -U gitlab_replicator -v -x -P

    echo Writing recovery.conf file
    sudo -u gitlab-psql bash -c "cat > /var/opt/gitlab/postgresql/data/recovery.conf <<- _EOF1_
      standby_mode = 'on'
      primary_conninfo = 'host=$HOST port=$PORT user=$USER password=$PASSWORD'
      trigger_file = '/tmp/postgresql.trigger'
    _EOF1_
    "

    echo Restore postgresql.conf
    sudo -u gitlab-psql mv /var/opt/gitlab/postgresql/postgresql.conf /var/opt/gitlab/postgresql/data/

    echo Starting PostgreSQL
    gitlab-ctl start
    ```

1. Run it with:

    ```
    bash /tmp/replica.sh
    ```

    When prompted, enter the password you set up for the `gitlab_replicator`
    user in the first step.

The replication process is now over.

## MySQL replication

We don't support MySQL replication for GitLab Geo.

[pgback]: http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.2/static/app-pgbasebackup.html
[reconfigure GitLab]: ../administration/restart_gitlab.md#omnibus-gitlab-reconfigure
