doc/development/testing_guide/index.md, before:

# Testing standards and style guidelines

This document describes various guidelines and best practices for automated
testing of the GitLab project.

It is meant to be an _extension_ of the [thoughtbot testing
styleguide](https://github.com/thoughtbot/guides/tree/master/style/testing). If
this guide defines a rule that contradicts the thoughtbot guide, this guide
takes precedence. Some guidelines may be repeated verbatim to stress their
importance.

## Overview

GitLab is built on top of [Ruby on Rails][rails], and we're using [RSpec] for all
the backend tests, with [Capybara] for end-to-end integration testing.
On the frontend side, we're using [Karma] and [Jasmine] for JavaScript unit and
integration testing.

Following are two great articles that everyone should read to understand what
automated testing means, and what are its principles:

- [Five Factor Testing](https://www.devmynd.com/blog/five-factor-testing): Why do we need tests?
- [Principles of Automated Testing](http://www.lihaoyi.com/post/PrinciplesofAutomatedTesting.html): Levels of testing. Prioritize tests. Cost of tests.

---

## [Testing levels](testing_levels.md)

Learn about the different testing levels, and how to decide at what level your
changes should be tested.

---

## [Testing best practices](best_practices.md)

Everything you should know about how to write good tests: RSpec, FactoryBot,
system tests, parameterized tests etc.

---

## [Frontend testing standards and style guidelines](frontend_testing.md)

Everything you should know about how to write good Frontend tests: Karma,
testing promises, stubbing etc.

---

## [Flaky tests](flaky_tests.md)

What are flaky tests, the different kind of flaky tests we encountered, and what
we do about them.

---

## [GitLab tests in the Continuous Integration (CI) context](ci.md)

How GitLab test suite is run in the CI context: setup, caches, artifacts,
parallelization, monitoring.

---

## [Testing Rake tasks](testing_rake_tasks.md)

Everything you should know about how to test Rake tasks.

---

## [End-to-end tests](end_to_end_tests.md)

Everything you should know about how to run end-to-end tests using
[GitLab QA][gitlab-qa] testing framework.

---

[Return to Development documentation](../README.md)

[^1]: /ci/yaml/README.html#dependencies

[rails]: http://rubyonrails.org/
[RSpec]: https://github.com/rspec/rspec-rails#feature-specs
[Capybara]: https://github.com/teamcapybara/capybara
[Karma]: http://karma-runner.github.io/
[Jasmine]: https://jasmine.github.io/
[gitlab-qa]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-qa

Commit message:

Document review apps setup for gitlab-{ce,ee}
Signed-off-by: Rémy Coutable <remy@rymai.me>
Signed-off-by: ddavison <ddavison@gitlab.com>

doc/development/testing_guide/index.md, after:

# Testing standards and style guidelines

This document describes various guidelines and best practices for automated
testing of the GitLab project.

It is meant to be an _extension_ of the [thoughtbot testing
styleguide](https://github.com/thoughtbot/guides/tree/master/style/testing). If
this guide defines a rule that contradicts the thoughtbot guide, this guide
takes precedence. Some guidelines may be repeated verbatim to stress their
importance.

## Overview

GitLab is built on top of [Ruby on Rails][rails], and we're using [RSpec] for all
the backend tests, with [Capybara] for end-to-end integration testing.
On the frontend side, we're using [Karma] and [Jasmine] for JavaScript unit and
integration testing.

Following are two great articles that everyone should read to understand what
automated testing means, and what are its principles:

- [Five Factor Testing](https://www.devmynd.com/blog/five-factor-testing): Why do we need tests?
- [Principles of Automated Testing](http://www.lihaoyi.com/post/PrinciplesofAutomatedTesting.html): Levels of testing. Prioritize tests. Cost of tests.

---

## [Testing levels](testing_levels.md)

Learn about the different testing levels, and how to decide at what level your
changes should be tested.

---

## [Testing best practices](best_practices.md)

Everything you should know about how to write good tests: RSpec, FactoryBot,
system tests, parameterized tests etc.

---

## [Frontend testing standards and style guidelines](frontend_testing.md)

Everything you should know about how to write good Frontend tests: Karma,
testing promises, stubbing etc.

---

## [Flaky tests](flaky_tests.md)

What are flaky tests, the different kind of flaky tests we encountered, and what
we do about them.

---

## [GitLab tests in the Continuous Integration (CI) context](ci.md)

How GitLab test suite is run in the CI context: setup, caches, artifacts,
parallelization, monitoring.

---

## [Review apps](review_apps.md)

How review apps are set up for GitLab CE/EE and how to use them.

---

## [Testing Rake tasks](testing_rake_tasks.md)

Everything you should know about how to test Rake tasks.

---

## [End-to-end tests](end_to_end_tests.md)

Everything you should know about how to run end-to-end tests using
[GitLab QA][gitlab-qa] testing framework.

---

[Return to Development documentation](../README.md)

[^1]: /ci/yaml/README.html#dependencies

[rails]: http://rubyonrails.org/
[RSpec]: https://github.com/rspec/rspec-rails#feature-specs
[Capybara]: https://github.com/teamcapybara/capybara
[Karma]: http://karma-runner.github.io/
[Jasmine]: https://jasmine.github.io/
[gitlab-qa]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-qa
