doc/user/admin_area/settings/account_and_limit_settings.md, before:

---
type: reference
---

# Account and limit settings

## Repository size limit **(STARTER)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ee/merge_requests/740) in [GitLab Enterprise Edition 8.12](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/09/22/gitlab-8-12-released/#limit-project-size-ee).
> Available in [GitLab Starter](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/).

Repositories within your GitLab instance can grow quickly, especially if you are
using LFS. Their size can grow exponentially, rapidly consuming available storage.

To avoid this from happening, you can set a hard limit for your repositories' size.
This limit can be set globally, per group, or per project, with per project limits
taking the highest priority.

There are numerous use cases where you might set up a limit for repository size.
For instance, consider the following workflow:

1. Your team develops apps which require large files to be stored in
   the application repository.
1. Although you have enabled [Git LFS](../../../workflow/lfs/manage_large_binaries_with_git_lfs.md#git-lfs)
   to your project, your storage has grown significantly.
1. Before you exceed available storage, you set up a limit of 10 GB
   per repository.

### How it works

Only a GitLab administrator can set those limits. Setting the limit to `0` means
there are no restrictions.

These settings can be found within:

- Each project's settings.
- A group's settings.
- The **Size limit per repository (MB)** field in the **Account and limit** section of a GitLab instance's
  settings by navigating to either:
  - **Admin Area > Settings > General**.
  - The path `/admin/application_settings`.

The first push of a new project, including LFS objects, will be checked for size
and **will** be rejected if the sum of their sizes exceeds the maximum allowed
repository size.

**Note:** The repository size limit includes repository files and LFS, and does not include artifacts.

For details on manually purging files, see [reducing the repository size using Git](../../project/repository/reducing_the_repo_size_using_git.md).

NOTE: **Note:**
GitLab.com repository size [is set by GitLab](../../gitlab_com/index.md#repository-size-limit).

<!-- ## Troubleshooting

Include any troubleshooting steps that you can foresee. If you know beforehand what issues
one might have when setting this up, or when something is changed, or on upgrading, it's
important to describe those, too. Think of things that may go wrong and include them here.
This is important to minimize requests for support, and to avoid doc comments with
questions that you know someone might ask.

Each scenario can be a third-level heading, e.g. `### Getting error message X`.
If you have none to add when creating a doc, leave this section in place
but commented out to help encourage others to add to it in the future. -->

Commit message:

Update admin_area to explain max attachment size
Add information about max attachment size, including
troubleshooting information if an error is received

doc/user/admin_area/settings/account_and_limit_settings.md, after:

---
type: reference
---

# Account and limit settings

## Max attachment size

You can change the maximum file size for attachments in comments and replies in GitLab.
Navigate to **Admin Area (wrench icon) > Settings > General**, then expand **Account and Limit**.
From here, you can increase or decrease by changing the value in `Maximum attachment size (MB)`.

NOTE: **Note:**
If you choose a size larger than what is currently configured for the web server,
you will likely get errors. See the [troubleshooting section](#troubleshooting) for more
details.

## Repository size limit **(STARTER)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ee/merge_requests/740) in [GitLab Enterprise Edition 8.12](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/09/22/gitlab-8-12-released/#limit-project-size-ee).
> Available in [GitLab Starter](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/).

Repositories within your GitLab instance can grow quickly, especially if you are
using LFS. Their size can grow exponentially, rapidly consuming available storage.

To avoid this from happening, you can set a hard limit for your repositories' size.
This limit can be set globally, per group, or per project, with per project limits
taking the highest priority.

There are numerous use cases where you might set up a limit for repository size.
For instance, consider the following workflow:

1. Your team develops apps which require large files to be stored in
   the application repository.
1. Although you have enabled [Git LFS](../../../workflow/lfs/manage_large_binaries_with_git_lfs.md#git-lfs)
   to your project, your storage has grown significantly.
1. Before you exceed available storage, you set up a limit of 10 GB
   per repository.

### How it works

Only a GitLab administrator can set those limits. Setting the limit to `0` means
there are no restrictions.

These settings can be found within:

- Each project's settings.
- A group's settings.
- The **Size limit per repository (MB)** field in the **Account and limit** section of a GitLab instance's
  settings by navigating to either:
  - **Admin Area > Settings > General**.
  - The path `/admin/application_settings`.

The first push of a new project, including LFS objects, will be checked for size
and **will** be rejected if the sum of their sizes exceeds the maximum allowed
repository size.

**Note:** The repository size limit includes repository files and LFS, and does not include artifacts.

For details on manually purging files, see [reducing the repository size using Git](../../project/repository/reducing_the_repo_size_using_git.md).

NOTE: **Note:**
GitLab.com repository size [is set by GitLab](../../gitlab_com/index.md#repository-size-limit).

## Troubleshooting

### 413 Request Entity Too Large

If you are attaching a file to a comment or reply in GitLab and receive the `413 Request Entity Too Large`
error, it is likely caused by having a [max attachment size](#max-attachment-size)
larger than what the web server is configured to allow.

If you wanted to increase the max attachment size to 200m in a GitLab
[Omnibus](https://docs.gitlab.com/omnibus/) install, for example, you might need to
add the line below to `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` before increasing the max attachment size:

```
nginx['client_max_body_size'] = "200m"
```
