doc/api/boards.md, before:

# Issue Boards API

Every API call to boards must be authenticated.

If a user is not a member of a project and the project is private, a `GET`
request on that project will result to a `404` status code.

## Project Board

Lists Issue Boards in the given project.

```
GET /projects/:id/boards
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/boards
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "id" : 1,
    "project": {
      "id": 5,
      "name": "Diaspora Project Site",
      "name_with_namespace": "Diaspora / Diaspora Project Site",
      "path": "diaspora-project-site",
      "path_with_namespace": "diaspora/diaspora-project-site",
      "http_url_to_repo": "http://example.com/diaspora/diaspora-project-site.git",
      "web_url": "http://example.com/diaspora/diaspora-project-site"
    },
    "milestone":   {
      "id": 12
      "title": "10.0"
    },
    "lists" : [
      {
        "id" : 1,
        "label" : {
          "name" : "Testing",
          "color" : "#F0AD4E",
          "description" : null
        },
        "position" : 1
      },
      {
        "id" : 2,
        "label" : {
          "name" : "Ready",
          "color" : "#FF0000",
          "description" : null
        },
        "position" : 2
      },
      {
        "id" : 3,
        "label" : {
          "name" : "Production",
          "color" : "#FF5F00",
          "description" : null
        },
        "position" : 3
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

## Single board

Get a single board.

```
GET /projects/:id/boards/:board_id
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `board_id` | integer | yes | The ID of a board |

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/boards/1
```

Example response:

```json
  {
    "id": 1,
    "name:": "project issue board",
    "project": {
      "id": 5,
      "name": "Diaspora Project Site",
      "name_with_namespace": "Diaspora / Diaspora Project Site",
      "path": "diaspora-project-site",
      "path_with_namespace": "diaspora/diaspora-project-site",
      "http_url_to_repo": "http://example.com/diaspora/diaspora-project-site.git",
      "web_url": "http://example.com/diaspora/diaspora-project-site"
    },
    "milestone":   {
      "id": 12
      "title": "10.0"
    },
    "lists" : [
      {
        "id" : 1,
        "label" : {
          "name" : "Testing",
          "color" : "#F0AD4E",
          "description" : null
        },
        "position" : 1
      },
      {
        "id" : 2,
        "label" : {
          "name" : "Ready",
          "color" : "#FF0000",
          "description" : null
        },
        "position" : 2
      },
      {
        "id" : 3,
        "label" : {
          "name" : "Production",
          "color" : "#FF5F00",
          "description" : null
        },
        "position" : 3
      }
    ]
  }
```

## Create a board **[STARTER]**

Creates a board.

```
POST /projects/:id/boards
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `name` | string | yes | The name of the new board |

```bash
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/boards?name=newboard
```

Example response:

```json
  {
    "id": 1,
    "project": {
      "id": 5,
      "name": "Diaspora Project Site",
      "name_with_namespace": "Diaspora / Diaspora Project Site",
      "path": "diaspora-project-site",
      "path_with_namespace": "diaspora/diaspora-project-site",
      "http_url_to_repo": "http://example.com/diaspora/diaspora-project-site.git",
      "web_url": "http://example.com/diaspora/diaspora-project-site"
    },
    "name": "newboard",
    "milestone":   {
      "id": 12
      "title": "10.0"
    },
    "lists" : [
      {
        "id" : 1,
        "label" : {
          "name" : "Testing",
          "color" : "#F0AD4E",
          "description" : null
        },
        "position" : 1
      },
      {
        "id" : 2,
        "label" : {
          "name" : "Ready",
          "color" : "#FF0000",
          "description" : null
        },
        "position" : 2
      },
      {
        "id" : 3,
        "label" : {
          "name" : "Production",
          "color" : "#FF5F00",
          "description" : null
        },
        "position" : 3
      }
    ]
  }
```

## Update a board **[STARTER]**

> [Introduced][ee-5954] in GitLab 11.1.

Updates a board.

```
PUT /projects/:id/boards/:board_id
```

| Attribute           | Type           | Required | Description |
| ------------------- | -------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id`                | integer/string | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `board_id`          | integer        | yes      | The ID of a board |
| `name`              | string         | no       | The new name of the board |
| `assignee_id`       | integer        | no       | The assignee the board should be scoped to |
| `milestone_id`      | integer        | no       | The milestone the board should be scoped to |
| `labels`            | string         | no       | Comma-separated list of label names which the board should be scoped to |
| `weight`            | integer        | no       | The weight range from 0 to 9, to which the board should be scoped to |


```bash
curl --request PUT --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/boards/1?name=new_name&milestone_id=43&assignee_id=1&labels=Doing&weight=4
```

Example response:

```json
  {
    "id": 1,
    "project": {
      "id": 5,
      "name": "Diaspora Project Site",
      "name_with_namespace": "Diaspora / Diaspora Project Site",
      "path": "diaspora-project-site",
      "path_with_namespace": "diaspora/diaspora-project-site",
      "created_at": "2018-07-03T05:48:49.982Z",
      "default_branch": null,
      "tag_list": [],
      "ssh_url_to_repo": "ssh://user@example.com/diaspora/diaspora-project-site.git",
      "http_url_to_repo": "http://example.com/diaspora/diaspora-project-site.git",
      "web_url": "http://example.com/diaspora/diaspora-project-site",
      "readme_url": null,
      "avatar_url": null,
      "star_count": 0,
      "forks_count": 0,
      "last_activity_at": "2018-07-03T05:48:49.982Z"
    },
    "lists": [],
    "name": "new_name",
    "group": null,
    "milestone": {
      "id": 43,
      "iid": 1,
      "project_id": 15,
      "title": "Milestone 1",
      "description": "Milestone 1 desc",
      "state": "active",
      "created_at": "2018-07-03T06:36:42.618Z",
      "updated_at": "2018-07-03T06:36:42.618Z",
      "due_date": null,
      "start_date": null,
      "web_url": "http://example.com/root/board1/milestones/1"
    },
    "assignee": {
      "id": 1,
      "name": "Administrator",
      "username": "root",
      "state": "active",
      "avatar_url": "https://www.gravatar.com/avatar/e64c7d89f26bd1972efa854d13d7dd61?s=80&d=identicon",
      "web_url": "http://example.com/root"
    },
    "labels": [{
      "id": 10,
      "name": "Doing",
      "color": "#5CB85C",
      "description": null
    }],
    "weight": 4
  }
```

## Delete a board **[STARTER]**

Deletes a board.

```
DELETE /projects/:id/boards/:board_id
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `board_id` | integer | yes | The ID of a board |

```bash
curl --request DELETE --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/boards/1
```

## List board lists

Get a list of the board's lists.
Does not include `backlog` and `closed` lists

```
GET /projects/:id/boards/:board_id/lists
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `board_id` | integer | yes | The ID of a board |

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/boards/1/lists
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "id" : 1,
    "label" : {
      "name" : "Testing",
      "color" : "#F0AD4E",
      "description" : null
    },
    "position" : 1
  },
  {
    "id" : 2,
    "label" : {
      "name" : "Ready",
      "color" : "#FF0000",
      "description" : null
    },
    "position" : 2
  },
  {
    "id" : 3,
    "label" : {
      "name" : "Production",
      "color" : "#FF5F00",
      "description" : null
    },
    "position" : 3
  }
]
```

## Single board list

Get a single board list.

```
GET /projects/:id/boards/:board_id/lists/:list_id
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `board_id` | integer | yes | The ID of a board |
| `list_id`| integer | yes | The ID of a board's list |

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/boards/1/lists/1
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id" : 1,
  "label" : {
    "name" : "Testing",
    "color" : "#F0AD4E",
    "description" : null
  },
  "position" : 1
}
```

## New board list

Creates a new Issue Board list.

```
POST /projects/:id/boards/:board_id/lists
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `board_id` | integer | yes | The ID of a board |
| `label_id` | integer | yes | The ID of a label |

```bash
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/boards/1/lists?label_id=5
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id" : 1,
  "label" : {
    "name" : "Testing",
    "color" : "#F0AD4E",
    "description" : null
  },
  "position" : 1
}
```

## Edit board list

Updates an existing Issue Board list. This call is used to change list position.

```
PUT /projects/:id/boards/:board_id/lists/:list_id
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `board_id` | integer | yes | The ID of a board |
| `list_id` | integer | yes | The ID of a board's list |
| `position` | integer | yes | The position of the list |

```bash
curl --request PUT --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/boards/1/lists/1?position=2
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id" : 1,
  "label" : {
    "name" : "Testing",
    "color" : "#F0AD4E",
    "description" : null
  },
  "position" : 1
}
```

## Delete a board list

Only for admins and project owners. Soft deletes the board list in question.

```
DELETE /projects/:id/boards/:board_id/lists/:list_id
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `board_id` | integer | yes | The ID of a board |
| `list_id` | integer | yes | The ID of a board's list |

```bash
curl --request DELETE --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/boards/1/lists/1
```

[ee-5954]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ee/merge_requests/5954

Commit message:

Update Issue boards and API docs regarding milestone and assignee lists

doc/api/boards.md, after:

# Issue Boards API

Every API call to boards must be authenticated.

If a user is not a member of a project and the project is private, a `GET`
request on that project will result to a `404` status code.

## Project Board

Lists Issue Boards in the given project.

```
GET /projects/:id/boards
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/boards
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "id" : 1,
    "project": {
      "id": 5,
      "name": "Diaspora Project Site",
      "name_with_namespace": "Diaspora / Diaspora Project Site",
      "path": "diaspora-project-site",
      "path_with_namespace": "diaspora/diaspora-project-site",
      "http_url_to_repo": "http://example.com/diaspora/diaspora-project-site.git",
      "web_url": "http://example.com/diaspora/diaspora-project-site"
    },
    "milestone":   {
      "id": 12
      "title": "10.0"
    },
    "lists" : [
      {
        "id" : 1,
        "label" : {
          "name" : "Testing",
          "color" : "#F0AD4E",
          "description" : null
        },
        "position" : 1
      },
      {
        "id" : 2,
        "label" : {
          "name" : "Ready",
          "color" : "#FF0000",
          "description" : null
        },
        "position" : 2
      },
      {
        "id" : 3,
        "label" : {
          "name" : "Production",
          "color" : "#FF5F00",
          "description" : null
        },
        "position" : 3
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

## Single board

Get a single board.

```
GET /projects/:id/boards/:board_id
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `board_id` | integer | yes | The ID of a board |

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/boards/1
```

Example response:

```json
  {
    "id": 1,
    "name:": "project issue board",
    "project": {
      "id": 5,
      "name": "Diaspora Project Site",
      "name_with_namespace": "Diaspora / Diaspora Project Site",
      "path": "diaspora-project-site",
      "path_with_namespace": "diaspora/diaspora-project-site",
      "http_url_to_repo": "http://example.com/diaspora/diaspora-project-site.git",
      "web_url": "http://example.com/diaspora/diaspora-project-site"
    },
    "milestone":   {
      "id": 12
      "title": "10.0"
    },
    "lists" : [
      {
        "id" : 1,
        "label" : {
          "name" : "Testing",
          "color" : "#F0AD4E",
          "description" : null
        },
        "position" : 1
      },
      {
        "id" : 2,
        "label" : {
          "name" : "Ready",
          "color" : "#FF0000",
          "description" : null
        },
        "position" : 2
      },
      {
        "id" : 3,
        "label" : {
          "name" : "Production",
          "color" : "#FF5F00",
          "description" : null
        },
        "position" : 3
      }
    ]
  }
```

## Create a board **[STARTER]**

Creates a board.

```
POST /projects/:id/boards
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `name` | string | yes | The name of the new board |

```bash
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/boards?name=newboard
```

Example response:

```json
  {
    "id": 1,
    "project": {
      "id": 5,
      "name": "Diaspora Project Site",
      "name_with_namespace": "Diaspora / Diaspora Project Site",
      "path": "diaspora-project-site",
      "path_with_namespace": "diaspora/diaspora-project-site",
      "http_url_to_repo": "http://example.com/diaspora/diaspora-project-site.git",
      "web_url": "http://example.com/diaspora/diaspora-project-site"
    },
    "name": "newboard",
    "milestone":   {
      "id": 12
      "title": "10.0"
    },
    "lists" : [
      {
        "id" : 1,
        "label" : {
          "name" : "Testing",
          "color" : "#F0AD4E",
          "description" : null
        },
        "position" : 1
      },
      {
        "id" : 2,
        "label" : {
          "name" : "Ready",
          "color" : "#FF0000",
          "description" : null
        },
        "position" : 2
      },
      {
        "id" : 3,
        "label" : {
          "name" : "Production",
          "color" : "#FF5F00",
          "description" : null
        },
        "position" : 3
      }
    ]
  }
```

## Update a board **[STARTER]**

> [Introduced][ee-5954] in GitLab 11.1.

Updates a board.

```
PUT /projects/:id/boards/:board_id
```

| Attribute           | Type           | Required | Description |
| ------------------- | -------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id`                | integer/string | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `board_id`          | integer        | yes      | The ID of a board |
| `name`              | string         | no       | The new name of the board |
| `assignee_id`       | integer        | no       | The assignee the board should be scoped to |
| `milestone_id`      | integer        | no       | The milestone the board should be scoped to |
| `labels`            | string         | no       | Comma-separated list of label names which the board should be scoped to |
| `weight`            | integer        | no       | The weight range from 0 to 9, to which the board should be scoped to |


```bash
curl --request PUT --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/boards/1?name=new_name&milestone_id=43&assignee_id=1&labels=Doing&weight=4
```

Example response:

```json
  {
    "id": 1,
    "project": {
      "id": 5,
      "name": "Diaspora Project Site",
      "name_with_namespace": "Diaspora / Diaspora Project Site",
      "path": "diaspora-project-site",
      "path_with_namespace": "diaspora/diaspora-project-site",
      "created_at": "2018-07-03T05:48:49.982Z",
      "default_branch": null,
      "tag_list": [],
      "ssh_url_to_repo": "ssh://user@example.com/diaspora/diaspora-project-site.git",
      "http_url_to_repo": "http://example.com/diaspora/diaspora-project-site.git",
      "web_url": "http://example.com/diaspora/diaspora-project-site",
      "readme_url": null,
      "avatar_url": null,
      "star_count": 0,
      "forks_count": 0,
      "last_activity_at": "2018-07-03T05:48:49.982Z"
    },
    "lists": [],
    "name": "new_name",
    "group": null,
    "milestone": {
      "id": 43,
      "iid": 1,
      "project_id": 15,
      "title": "Milestone 1",
      "description": "Milestone 1 desc",
      "state": "active",
      "created_at": "2018-07-03T06:36:42.618Z",
      "updated_at": "2018-07-03T06:36:42.618Z",
      "due_date": null,
      "start_date": null,
      "web_url": "http://example.com/root/board1/milestones/1"
    },
    "assignee": {
      "id": 1,
      "name": "Administrator",
      "username": "root",
      "state": "active",
      "avatar_url": "https://www.gravatar.com/avatar/e64c7d89f26bd1972efa854d13d7dd61?s=80&d=identicon",
      "web_url": "http://example.com/root"
    },
    "labels": [{
      "id": 10,
      "name": "Doing",
      "color": "#5CB85C",
      "description": null
    }],
    "weight": 4
  }
```

## Delete a board **[STARTER]**

Deletes a board.

```
DELETE /projects/:id/boards/:board_id
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `board_id` | integer | yes | The ID of a board |

```bash
curl --request DELETE --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/boards/1
```

## List board lists

Get a list of the board's lists.
Does not include `backlog` and `closed` lists

```
GET /projects/:id/boards/:board_id/lists
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `board_id` | integer | yes | The ID of a board |

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/boards/1/lists
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "id" : 1,
    "label" : {
      "name" : "Testing",
      "color" : "#F0AD4E",
      "description" : null
    },
    "position" : 1
  },
  {
    "id" : 2,
    "label" : {
      "name" : "Ready",
      "color" : "#FF0000",
      "description" : null
    },
    "position" : 2
  },
  {
    "id" : 3,
    "label" : {
      "name" : "Production",
      "color" : "#FF5F00",
      "description" : null
    },
    "position" : 3
  }
]
```

## Single board list

Get a single board list.

```
GET /projects/:id/boards/:board_id/lists/:list_id
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `board_id` | integer | yes | The ID of a board |
| `list_id`| integer | yes | The ID of a board's list |

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/boards/1/lists/1
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id" : 1,
  "label" : {
    "name" : "Testing",
    "color" : "#F0AD4E",
    "description" : null
  },
  "position" : 1
}
```

## New board list

Creates a new Issue Board list.

```
POST /projects/:id/boards/:board_id/lists
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `board_id` | integer | yes | The ID of a board |
| `label_id` | integer | no | The ID of a label |
| `assignee_id` | integer | no | The ID of an user |
| `milestone_id` | integer | no | The ID of a milestone |

>**Note**: Label, assignee and milestone arguments are mutually exclusive,
that is, only one of them are accepted in a request.
Check the [Issue Board docs](../user/project/issue_board.md) for more
information regarding the required license for each list type.

```bash
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/boards/1/lists?label_id=5
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id" : 1,
  "label" : {
    "name" : "Testing",
    "color" : "#F0AD4E",
    "description" : null
  },
  "position" : 1
}
```

## Edit board list

Updates an existing Issue Board list. This call is used to change list position.

```
PUT /projects/:id/boards/:board_id/lists/:list_id
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `board_id` | integer | yes | The ID of a board |
| `list_id` | integer | yes | The ID of a board's list |
| `position` | integer | yes | The position of the list |

```bash
curl --request PUT --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/boards/1/lists/1?position=2
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id" : 1,
  "label" : {
    "name" : "Testing",
    "color" : "#F0AD4E",
    "description" : null
  },
  "position" : 1
}
```

## Delete a board list

Only for admins and project owners. Soft deletes the board list in question.

```
DELETE /projects/:id/boards/:board_id/lists/:list_id
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `board_id` | integer | yes | The ID of a board |
| `list_id` | integer | yes | The ID of a board's list |

```bash
curl --request DELETE --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/boards/1/lists/1
```

[ee-5954]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ee/merge_requests/5954
