doc/api/events.md, before:

# Events

## Filter parameters

### Action Types

Available action types for the `action` parameter are:

- `created`
- `updated`
- `closed`
- `reopened`
- `pushed`
- `commented`
- `merged`
- `joined`
- `left`
- `destroyed`
- `expired`

Note that these options are downcased.

### Target Types

Available target types for the `target_type` parameter are:

- `issue`
- `milestone`
- `merge_request`
- `note`
- `project`
- `snippet`
- `user`

Note that these options are downcased.

### Date formatting

Dates for the `before` and `after` parameters should be supplied in the following format:

```
YYYY-MM-DD
```

## List currently authenticated user's events

>**Note:** This endpoint was introduced in GitLab 9.3.

Get a list of events for the authenticated user.

```
GET /events
```

Parameters:

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `action` | string | no | Include only events of a particular [action type][action-types] |
| `target_type` | string | no | Include only events of a particular [target type][target-types] |
| `before` | date | no |  Include only events created before a particular date. Please see [here for the supported format][date-formatting] |
| `after` | date | no |  Include only events created after a particular date. Please see [here for the supported format][date-formatting]  |
| `sort` | string | no | Sort events in `asc` or `desc` order by `created_at`. Default is `desc` |

Example request:

```
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/events&target_type=issue&action=created&after=2017-01-31&before=2017-03-01
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "title":null,
    "project_id":1,
    "action_name":"opened",
    "target_id":160,
    "target_type":"Issue",
    "author_id":25,
    "target_title":"Qui natus eos odio tempore et quaerat consequuntur ducimus cupiditate quis.",
    "created_at":"2017-02-09T10:43:19.667Z",
    "author":{
      "name":"User 3",
      "username":"user3",
      "id":25,
      "state":"active",
      "avatar_url":"http://www.gravatar.com/avatar/97d6d9441ff85fdc730e02a6068d267b?s=80\u0026d=identicon",
      "web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/user3"
    },
    "author_username":"user3"
  },
  {
    "title":null,
    "project_id":1,
    "action_name":"opened",
    "target_id":159,
    "target_type":"Issue",
    "author_id":21,
    "target_title":"Nostrum enim non et sed optio illo deleniti non.",
    "created_at":"2017-02-09T10:43:19.426Z",
    "author":{
      "name":"Test User",
      "username":"ted",
      "id":21,
      "state":"active",
      "avatar_url":"http://www.gravatar.com/avatar/80fb888c9a48b9a3f87477214acaa63f?s=80\u0026d=identicon",
      "web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/ted"
    },
    "author_username":"ted"
  }
]
```

### Get user contribution events

>**Note:** Documentation was formerly located in the [Users API pages][users-api].

Get the contribution events for the specified user, sorted from newest to oldest.

```
GET /users/:id/events
```

Parameters:

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer | yes | The ID or Username of the user |
| `action` | string | no | Include only events of a particular [action type][action-types] |
| `target_type` | string | no | Include only events of a particular [target type][target-types] |
| `before` | date | no |  Include only events created before a particular date. Please see [here for the supported format][date-formatting] |
| `after` | date | no |  Include only events created after a particular date. Please see [here for the supported format][date-formatting]  |
| `sort` | string | no | Sort events in `asc` or `desc` order by `created_at`. Default is `desc` |

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/users/:id/events
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "title": null,
    "project_id": 15,
    "action_name": "closed",
    "target_id": 830,
    "target_type": "Issue",
    "author_id": 1,
    "target_title": "Public project search field",
    "author": {
      "name": "Dmitriy Zaporozhets",
      "username": "root",
      "id": 1,
      "state": "active",
      "avatar_url": "http://localhost:3000/uploads/user/avatar/1/fox_avatar.png",
      "web_url": "http://localhost:3000/root"
    },
    "author_username": "root"
  },
  {
    "title": null,
    "project_id": 15,
    "action_name": "pushed",
    "target_id": null,
    "target_type": null,
    "author_id": 1,
    "author": {
      "name": "Dmitriy Zaporozhets",
      "username": "root",
      "id": 1,
      "state": "active",
      "avatar_url": "http://localhost:3000/uploads/user/avatar/1/fox_avatar.png",
      "web_url": "http://localhost:3000/root"
    },
    "author_username": "john",
    "push_data": {
      "commit_count": 1,
      "action": "pushed",
      "ref_type": "branch",
      "commit_from": "50d4420237a9de7be1304607147aec22e4a14af7",
      "commit_to": "c5feabde2d8cd023215af4d2ceeb7a64839fc428",
      "ref": "master",
      "commit_title": "Add simple search to projects in public area"
    },
    "target_title": null
  },
  {
    "title": null,
    "project_id": 15,
    "action_name": "closed",
    "target_id": 840,
    "target_type": "Issue",
    "author_id": 1,
    "target_title": "Finish & merge Code search PR",
    "author": {
      "name": "Dmitriy Zaporozhets",
      "username": "root",
      "id": 1,
      "state": "active",
      "avatar_url": "http://localhost:3000/uploads/user/avatar/1/fox_avatar.png",
      "web_url": "http://localhost:3000/root"
    },
    "author_username": "root"
  },
  {
    "title": null,
    "project_id": 15,
    "action_name": "commented on",
    "target_id": 1312,
    "target_type": "Note",
    "author_id": 1,
    "target_title": null,
    "created_at": "2015-12-04T10:33:58.089Z",
    "note": {
      "id": 1312,
      "body": "What an awesome day!",
      "attachment": null,
      "author": {
        "name": "Dmitriy Zaporozhets",
        "username": "root",
        "id": 1,
        "state": "active",
        "avatar_url": "http://localhost:3000/uploads/user/avatar/1/fox_avatar.png",
        "web_url": "http://localhost:3000/root"
      },
      "created_at": "2015-12-04T10:33:56.698Z",
      "system": false,
      "noteable_id": 377,
      "noteable_type": "Issue"
    },
    "author": {
      "name": "Dmitriy Zaporozhets",
      "username": "root",
      "id": 1,
      "state": "active",
      "avatar_url": "http://localhost:3000/uploads/user/avatar/1/fox_avatar.png",
      "web_url": "http://localhost:3000/root"
    },
    "author_username": "root"
  }
]
```

## List a Project's visible events

>**Note:** This endpoint has been around longer than the others. Documentation was formerly located in the [Projects API pages][projects-api].

Get a list of visible events for a particular project.

```
GET /:project_id/events
```

Parameters:

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `project_id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) |
| `action` | string | no | Include only events of a particular [action type][action-types] |
| `target_type` | string | no | Include only events of a particular [target type][target-types] |
| `before` | date | no |  Include only events created before a particular date. Please see [here for the supported format][date-formatting] |
| `after` | date | no |  Include only events created after a particular date. Please see [here for the supported format][date-formatting]  |
| `sort` | string | no | Sort events in `asc` or `desc` order by `created_at`. Default is `desc` |

Example request:

```
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/:project_id/events&target_type=issue&action=created&after=2017-01-31&before=2017-03-01
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "title":null,
    "project_id":1,
    "action_name":"opened",
    "target_id":160,
    "target_iid":160,
    "target_type":"Issue",
    "author_id":25,
    "target_title":"Qui natus eos odio tempore et quaerat consequuntur ducimus cupiditate quis.",
    "created_at":"2017-02-09T10:43:19.667Z",
    "author":{
      "name":"User 3",
      "username":"user3",
      "id":25,
      "state":"active",
      "avatar_url":"http://www.gravatar.com/avatar/97d6d9441ff85fdc730e02a6068d267b?s=80\u0026d=identicon",
      "web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/user3"
    },
    "author_username":"user3"
  },
  {
    "title":null,
    "project_id":1,
    "action_name":"opened",
    "target_id":159,
    "target_iid":159,
    "target_type":"Issue",
    "author_id":21,
    "target_title":"Nostrum enim non et sed optio illo deleniti non.",
    "created_at":"2017-02-09T10:43:19.426Z",
    "author":{
      "name":"Test User",
      "username":"ted",
      "id":21,
      "state":"active",
      "avatar_url":"http://www.gravatar.com/avatar/80fb888c9a48b9a3f87477214acaa63f?s=80\u0026d=identicon",
      "web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/ted"
    },
    "author_username":"ted"
  },
  {
    "title": null,
    "project_id": 1,
    "action_name": "commented on",
    "target_id": 1312,
    "target_iid": 1312,
    "target_type": "Note",
    "author_id": 1,
    "data": null,
    "target_title": null,
    "created_at": "2015-12-04T10:33:58.089Z",
    "note": {
      "id": 1312,
      "body": "What an awesome day!",
      "attachment": null,
      "author": {
        "name": "Dmitriy Zaporozhets",
        "username": "root",
        "id": 1,
        "state": "active",
        "avatar_url": "http://localhost:3000/uploads/user/avatar/1/fox_avatar.png",
        "web_url": "http://localhost:3000/root"
      },
      "created_at": "2015-12-04T10:33:56.698Z",
      "system": false,
      "noteable_id": 377,
      "noteable_type": "Issue",
      "noteable_iid": 377
    },
    "author": {
      "name": "Dmitriy Zaporozhets",
      "username": "root",
      "id": 1,
      "state": "active",
      "avatar_url": "http://localhost:3000/uploads/user/avatar/1/fox_avatar.png",
      "web_url": "http://localhost:3000/root"
    },
    "author_username": "root"
  }
]
```

[target-types]: #target-types "Target Type parameter"
[action-types]: #action-types "Action Type parameter"
[date-formatting]: #date-formatting "Date Formatting guidance"
[projects-api]: projects.md "Projects API pages"
[users-api]: users.md "Users API pages"

Commit message:

Update events.md with time period limit documentation

doc/api/events.md, after:

# Events

## Filter parameters

### Action Types

Available action types for the `action` parameter are:

- `created`
- `updated`
- `closed`
- `reopened`
- `pushed`
- `commented`
- `merged`
- `joined`
- `left`
- `destroyed`
- `expired`

Note that these options are downcased.

### Target Types

Available target types for the `target_type` parameter are:

- `issue`
- `milestone`
- `merge_request`
- `note`
- `project`
- `snippet`
- `user`

Note that these options are downcased.

### Date formatting

Dates for the `before` and `after` parameters should be supplied in the following format:

```
YYYY-MM-DD
```

### Event Time Period Limit

GitLab removes events older than 1 year from the events table for performance reasons. The range of 1 year was chosen because user contribution calendars only show contributions of the past year.

## List currently authenticated user's events

>**Note:** This endpoint was introduced in GitLab 9.3.

Get a list of events for the authenticated user.

```
GET /events
```

Parameters:

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `action` | string | no | Include only events of a particular [action type][action-types] |
| `target_type` | string | no | Include only events of a particular [target type][target-types] |
| `before` | date | no |  Include only events created before a particular date. Please see [here for the supported format][date-formatting] |
| `after` | date | no |  Include only events created after a particular date. Please see [here for the supported format][date-formatting]  |
| `sort` | string | no | Sort events in `asc` or `desc` order by `created_at`. Default is `desc` |

Example request:

```
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/events&target_type=issue&action=created&after=2017-01-31&before=2017-03-01
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "title":null,
    "project_id":1,
    "action_name":"opened",
    "target_id":160,
    "target_type":"Issue",
    "author_id":25,
    "target_title":"Qui natus eos odio tempore et quaerat consequuntur ducimus cupiditate quis.",
    "created_at":"2017-02-09T10:43:19.667Z",
    "author":{
      "name":"User 3",
      "username":"user3",
      "id":25,
      "state":"active",
      "avatar_url":"http://www.gravatar.com/avatar/97d6d9441ff85fdc730e02a6068d267b?s=80\u0026d=identicon",
      "web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/user3"
    },
    "author_username":"user3"
  },
  {
    "title":null,
    "project_id":1,
    "action_name":"opened",
    "target_id":159,
    "target_type":"Issue",
    "author_id":21,
    "target_title":"Nostrum enim non et sed optio illo deleniti non.",
    "created_at":"2017-02-09T10:43:19.426Z",
    "author":{
      "name":"Test User",
      "username":"ted",
      "id":21,
      "state":"active",
      "avatar_url":"http://www.gravatar.com/avatar/80fb888c9a48b9a3f87477214acaa63f?s=80\u0026d=identicon",
      "web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/ted"
    },
    "author_username":"ted"
  }
]
```

### Get user contribution events

>**Note:** Documentation was formerly located in the [Users API pages][users-api].

Get the contribution events for the specified user, sorted from newest to oldest.

```
GET /users/:id/events
```

Parameters:

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer | yes | The ID or Username of the user |
| `action` | string | no | Include only events of a particular [action type][action-types] |
| `target_type` | string | no | Include only events of a particular [target type][target-types] |
| `before` | date | no |  Include only events created before a particular date. Please see [here for the supported format][date-formatting] |
| `after` | date | no |  Include only events created after a particular date. Please see [here for the supported format][date-formatting]  |
| `sort` | string | no | Sort events in `asc` or `desc` order by `created_at`. Default is `desc` |

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/users/:id/events
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "title": null,
    "project_id": 15,
    "action_name": "closed",
    "target_id": 830,
    "target_type": "Issue",
    "author_id": 1,
    "target_title": "Public project search field",
    "author": {
      "name": "Dmitriy Zaporozhets",
      "username": "root",
      "id": 1,
      "state": "active",
      "avatar_url": "http://localhost:3000/uploads/user/avatar/1/fox_avatar.png",
      "web_url": "http://localhost:3000/root"
    },
    "author_username": "root"
  },
  {
    "title": null,
    "project_id": 15,
    "action_name": "pushed",
    "target_id": null,
    "target_type": null,
    "author_id": 1,
    "author": {
      "name": "Dmitriy Zaporozhets",
      "username": "root",
      "id": 1,
      "state": "active",
      "avatar_url": "http://localhost:3000/uploads/user/avatar/1/fox_avatar.png",
      "web_url": "http://localhost:3000/root"
    },
    "author_username": "john",
    "push_data": {
      "commit_count": 1,
      "action": "pushed",
      "ref_type": "branch",
      "commit_from": "50d4420237a9de7be1304607147aec22e4a14af7",
      "commit_to": "c5feabde2d8cd023215af4d2ceeb7a64839fc428",
      "ref": "master",
      "commit_title": "Add simple search to projects in public area"
    },
    "target_title": null
  },
  {
    "title": null,
    "project_id": 15,
    "action_name": "closed",
    "target_id": 840,
    "target_type": "Issue",
    "author_id": 1,
    "target_title": "Finish & merge Code search PR",
    "author": {
      "name": "Dmitriy Zaporozhets",
      "username": "root",
      "id": 1,
      "state": "active",
      "avatar_url": "http://localhost:3000/uploads/user/avatar/1/fox_avatar.png",
      "web_url": "http://localhost:3000/root"
    },
    "author_username": "root"
  },
  {
    "title": null,
    "project_id": 15,
    "action_name": "commented on",
    "target_id": 1312,
    "target_type": "Note",
    "author_id": 1,
    "target_title": null,
    "created_at": "2015-12-04T10:33:58.089Z",
    "note": {
      "id": 1312,
      "body": "What an awesome day!",
      "attachment": null,
      "author": {
        "name": "Dmitriy Zaporozhets",
        "username": "root",
        "id": 1,
        "state": "active",
        "avatar_url": "http://localhost:3000/uploads/user/avatar/1/fox_avatar.png",
        "web_url": "http://localhost:3000/root"
      },
      "created_at": "2015-12-04T10:33:56.698Z",
      "system": false,
      "noteable_id": 377,
      "noteable_type": "Issue"
    },
    "author": {
      "name": "Dmitriy Zaporozhets",
      "username": "root",
      "id": 1,
      "state": "active",
      "avatar_url": "http://localhost:3000/uploads/user/avatar/1/fox_avatar.png",
      "web_url": "http://localhost:3000/root"
    },
    "author_username": "root"
  }
]
```

## List a Project's visible events

>**Note:** This endpoint has been around longer than the others. Documentation was formerly located in the [Projects API pages][projects-api].

Get a list of visible events for a particular project.

```
GET /:project_id/events
```

Parameters:

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `project_id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) |
| `action` | string | no | Include only events of a particular [action type][action-types] |
| `target_type` | string | no | Include only events of a particular [target type][target-types] |
| `before` | date | no |  Include only events created before a particular date. Please see [here for the supported format][date-formatting] |
| `after` | date | no |  Include only events created after a particular date. Please see [here for the supported format][date-formatting]  |
| `sort` | string | no | Sort events in `asc` or `desc` order by `created_at`. Default is `desc` |

Example request:

```
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/:project_id/events&target_type=issue&action=created&after=2017-01-31&before=2017-03-01
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "title":null,
    "project_id":1,
    "action_name":"opened",
    "target_id":160,
    "target_iid":160,
    "target_type":"Issue",
    "author_id":25,
    "target_title":"Qui natus eos odio tempore et quaerat consequuntur ducimus cupiditate quis.",
    "created_at":"2017-02-09T10:43:19.667Z",
    "author":{
      "name":"User 3",
      "username":"user3",
      "id":25,
      "state":"active",
      "avatar_url":"http://www.gravatar.com/avatar/97d6d9441ff85fdc730e02a6068d267b?s=80\u0026d=identicon",
      "web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/user3"
    },
    "author_username":"user3"
  },
  {
    "title":null,
    "project_id":1,
    "action_name":"opened",
    "target_id":159,
    "target_iid":159,
    "target_type":"Issue",
    "author_id":21,
    "target_title":"Nostrum enim non et sed optio illo deleniti non.",
    "created_at":"2017-02-09T10:43:19.426Z",
    "author":{
      "name":"Test User",
      "username":"ted",
      "id":21,
      "state":"active",
      "avatar_url":"http://www.gravatar.com/avatar/80fb888c9a48b9a3f87477214acaa63f?s=80\u0026d=identicon",
      "web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/ted"
    },
    "author_username":"ted"
  },
  {
    "title": null,
    "project_id": 1,
    "action_name": "commented on",
    "target_id": 1312,
    "target_iid": 1312,
    "target_type": "Note",
    "author_id": 1,
    "data": null,
    "target_title": null,
    "created_at": "2015-12-04T10:33:58.089Z",
    "note": {
      "id": 1312,
      "body": "What an awesome day!",
      "attachment": null,
      "author": {
        "name": "Dmitriy Zaporozhets",
        "username": "root",
        "id": 1,
        "state": "active",
        "avatar_url": "http://localhost:3000/uploads/user/avatar/1/fox_avatar.png",
        "web_url": "http://localhost:3000/root"
      },
      "created_at": "2015-12-04T10:33:56.698Z",
      "system": false,
      "noteable_id": 377,
      "noteable_type": "Issue",
      "noteable_iid": 377
    },
    "author": {
      "name": "Dmitriy Zaporozhets",
      "username": "root",
      "id": 1,
      "state": "active",
      "avatar_url": "http://localhost:3000/uploads/user/avatar/1/fox_avatar.png",
      "web_url": "http://localhost:3000/root"
    },
    "author_username": "root"
  }
]
```

[target-types]: #target-types "Target Type parameter"
[action-types]: #action-types "Action Type parameter"
[date-formatting]: #date-formatting "Date Formatting guidance"
[projects-api]: projects.md "Projects API pages"
[users-api]: users.md "Users API pages"
