doc/api/group_labels.md, before:

# Group Labels API

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/merge_requests/21368) in GitLab 11.8.

This API supports managing of [group labels](../user/project/labels.md#project-labels-and-group-labels). It allows to list, create, update, and delete group labels. Furthermore, users can subscribe and unsubscribe to and from group labels.

## List group labels

Get all labels for a given group.

```
GET /groups/:id/labels
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the group](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user. |

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/5/labels
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "id": 7,
    "name": "bug",
    "color": "#FF0000",
    "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
    "description": null,
    "open_issues_count": 0,
    "closed_issues_count": 0,
    "open_merge_requests_count": 0,
    "subscribed": false
  },
  {
    "id": 4,
    "name": "feature",
    "color": "#228B22",
    "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
    "description": null,
    "open_issues_count": 0,
    "closed_issues_count": 0,
    "open_merge_requests_count": 0,
    "subscribed": false
  }
]
```

## Create a new group label

Create a new group label for a given group.

```
POST /groups/:id/labels
```

| Attribute     | Type    | Required | Description                  |
| ------------- | ------- | -------- | ---------------------------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the group](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `name`        | string  | yes      | The name of the label        |
| `color`       | string  | yes      | The color of the label given in 6-digit hex notation with leading '#' sign (e.g. #FFAABB) or one of the [CSS color names](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value#Color_keywords) |
| `description` | string  | no       | The description of the label, |

```bash
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" --header "Content-Type: application/json" --data '{"name": "Feature Proposal", "color": "#FFA500", "description": "Describes new ideas" }' https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/5/labels
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 9,
  "name": "Feature Proposal",
  "color": "#FFA500",
  "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
  "description": "Describes new ideas",
  "open_issues_count": 0,
  "closed_issues_count": 0,
  "open_merge_requests_count": 0,
  "subscribed": false
}
```

## Update a group label

Updates an existing group label. At least one parameter is required, to update the group label.

```
PUT /groups/:id/labels
```

| Attribute     | Type    | Required | Description                  |
| ------------- | ------- | -------- | ---------------------------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the group](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `name`        | string  | yes      | The name of the label        |
| `new_name`    | string  | no      | The new name of the label        |
| `color`       | string  | no      | The color of the label given in 6-digit hex notation with leading '#' sign (e.g. #FFAABB) or one of the [CSS color names](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value#Color_keywords) |
| `description` | string  | no       | The description of the label. |

```bash
curl --request PUT --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" --header "Content-Type: application/json" --data '{"name": "Feature Proposal", "new_name": "Feature Idea" }' https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/5/labels
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 9,
  "name": "Feature Idea",
  "color": "#FFA500",
  "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
  "description": "Describes new ideas",
  "open_issues_count": 0,
  "closed_issues_count": 0,
  "open_merge_requests_count": 0,
  "subscribed": false
}
```

## Delete a group label

Deletes a group label with a given name.

```
DELETE /groups/:id/labels
```

| Attribute | Type    | Required | Description           |
| --------- | ------- | -------- | --------------------- |
| `id`      | integer/string    | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the group](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `name`    | string  | yes      | The name of the label. |

```bash
curl --request DELETE --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/5/labels?name=bug
```

## Subscribe to a group label

Subscribes the authenticated user to a group label to receive notifications. If
the user is already subscribed to the label, the status code `304` is returned.

```
POST /groups/:id/labels/:label_id/subscribe
```

| Attribute  | Type              | Required | Description                          |
| ---------- | ----------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `id`      | integer/string    | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the group](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `label_id` | integer or string | yes      | The ID or title of a group's label. |

```bash
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/5/labels/9/subscribe
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 9,
  "name": "Feature Idea",
  "color": "#FFA500",
  "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
  "description": "Describes new ideas",
  "open_issues_count": 0,
  "closed_issues_count": 0,
  "open_merge_requests_count": 0,
  "subscribed": true
}
```

## Unsubscribe from a group label

Unsubscribes the authenticated user from a group label to not receive
notifications from it. If the user is not subscribed to the label, the status
code `304` is returned.

```
POST /groups/:id/labels/:label_id/unsubscribe
```

| Attribute  | Type              | Required | Description                          |
| ---------- | ----------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `id`      | integer/string    | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the group](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `label_id` | integer or string | yes      | The ID or title of a group's label. |

```bash
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/5/labels/9/unsubscribe
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 9,
  "name": "Feature Idea",
  "color": "#FFA500",
  "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
  "description": "Describes new ideas",
  "open_issues_count": 0,
  "closed_issues_count": 0,
  "open_merge_requests_count": 0,
  "subscribed": false
}
```

Commit message:

Remove label issue and MR counts from default API responses
These counts significantly increase the load time for these
requests. Users can now opt in to receiving the counts by setting
`with_counts=true` in requests. This is a breaking change, but hopefully
a fairly minor one.

doc/api/group_labels.md, after:

# Group Labels API

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/merge_requests/21368) in GitLab 11.8.

This API supports managing of [group labels](../user/project/labels.md#project-labels-and-group-labels). It allows to list, create, update, and delete group labels. Furthermore, users can subscribe and unsubscribe to and from group labels.

## List group labels

Get all labels for a given group.

```
GET /groups/:id/labels
```

| Attribute     | Type           | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ---------     | ----           | -------- | -----------                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `id`          | integer/string | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the group](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user.                                                               |
| `with_counts` | boolean        | no       | Whether or not to include issue and merge request counts. Defaults to `false`. _([Introduced in GitLab 12.2](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/merge_requests/31543))_ |

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/5/labels?with_counts=true
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "id": 7,
    "name": "bug",
    "color": "#FF0000",
    "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
    "description": null,
    "open_issues_count": 0,
    "closed_issues_count": 0,
    "open_merge_requests_count": 0,
    "subscribed": false
  },
  {
    "id": 4,
    "name": "feature",
    "color": "#228B22",
    "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
    "description": null,
    "open_issues_count": 0,
    "closed_issues_count": 0,
    "open_merge_requests_count": 0,
    "subscribed": false
  }
]
```

## Create a new group label

Create a new group label for a given group.

```
POST /groups/:id/labels
```

| Attribute     | Type    | Required | Description                  |
| ------------- | ------- | -------- | ---------------------------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the group](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `name`        | string  | yes      | The name of the label        |
| `color`       | string  | yes      | The color of the label given in 6-digit hex notation with leading '#' sign (e.g. #FFAABB) or one of the [CSS color names](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value#Color_keywords) |
| `description` | string  | no       | The description of the label, |

```bash
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" --header "Content-Type: application/json" --data '{"name": "Feature Proposal", "color": "#FFA500", "description": "Describes new ideas" }' https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/5/labels
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 9,
  "name": "Feature Proposal",
  "color": "#FFA500",
  "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
  "description": "Describes new ideas",
  "open_issues_count": 0,
  "closed_issues_count": 0,
  "open_merge_requests_count": 0,
  "subscribed": false
}
```

## Update a group label

Updates an existing group label. At least one parameter is required, to update the group label.

```
PUT /groups/:id/labels
```

| Attribute     | Type    | Required | Description                  |
| ------------- | ------- | -------- | ---------------------------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the group](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `name`        | string  | yes      | The name of the label        |
| `new_name`    | string  | no      | The new name of the label        |
| `color`       | string  | no      | The color of the label given in 6-digit hex notation with leading '#' sign (e.g. #FFAABB) or one of the [CSS color names](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value#Color_keywords) |
| `description` | string  | no       | The description of the label. |

```bash
curl --request PUT --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" --header "Content-Type: application/json" --data '{"name": "Feature Proposal", "new_name": "Feature Idea" }' https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/5/labels
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 9,
  "name": "Feature Idea",
  "color": "#FFA500",
  "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
  "description": "Describes new ideas",
  "open_issues_count": 0,
  "closed_issues_count": 0,
  "open_merge_requests_count": 0,
  "subscribed": false
}
```

## Delete a group label

Deletes a group label with a given name.

```
DELETE /groups/:id/labels
```

| Attribute | Type    | Required | Description           |
| --------- | ------- | -------- | --------------------- |
| `id`      | integer/string    | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the group](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `name`    | string  | yes      | The name of the label. |

```bash
curl --request DELETE --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/5/labels?name=bug
```

## Subscribe to a group label

Subscribes the authenticated user to a group label to receive notifications. If
the user is already subscribed to the label, the status code `304` is returned.

```
POST /groups/:id/labels/:label_id/subscribe
```

| Attribute  | Type              | Required | Description                          |
| ---------- | ----------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `id`      | integer/string    | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the group](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `label_id` | integer or string | yes      | The ID or title of a group's label. |

```bash
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/5/labels/9/subscribe
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 9,
  "name": "Feature Idea",
  "color": "#FFA500",
  "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
  "description": "Describes new ideas",
  "open_issues_count": 0,
  "closed_issues_count": 0,
  "open_merge_requests_count": 0,
  "subscribed": true
}
```

## Unsubscribe from a group label

Unsubscribes the authenticated user from a group label to not receive
notifications from it. If the user is not subscribed to the label, the status
code `304` is returned.

```
POST /groups/:id/labels/:label_id/unsubscribe
```

| Attribute  | Type              | Required | Description                          |
| ---------- | ----------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `id`      | integer/string    | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the group](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `label_id` | integer or string | yes      | The ID or title of a group's label. |

```bash
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/5/labels/9/unsubscribe
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 9,
  "name": "Feature Idea",
  "color": "#FFA500",
  "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
  "description": "Describes new ideas",
  "open_issues_count": 0,
  "closed_issues_count": 0,
  "open_merge_requests_count": 0,
  "subscribed": false
}
```
