doc/api/labels.md, before:

# Labels API

## List labels

Get all labels for a given project.

```
GET /projects/:id/labels
```

| Attribute | Type    | Required | Description           |
| --------- | ------- | -------- | --------------------- |
| `id`      | integer/string    | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/labels
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "id" : 1,
    "name" : "bug",
    "color" : "#d9534f",
    "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
    "description": "Bug reported by user",
    "open_issues_count": 1,
    "closed_issues_count": 0,
    "open_merge_requests_count": 1,
    "subscribed": false,
    "priority": 10,
    "is_project_label": true
  },
  {
    "id" : 4,
    "color" : "#d9534f",
    "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
    "name" : "confirmed",
    "description": "Confirmed issue",
    "open_issues_count": 2,
    "closed_issues_count": 5,
    "open_merge_requests_count": 0,
    "subscribed": false,
    "priority": null,
    "is_project_label": true
  },
  {
    "id" : 7,
    "name" : "critical",
    "color" : "#d9534f",
    "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
    "description": "Critical issue. Need fix ASAP",
    "open_issues_count": 1,
    "closed_issues_count": 3,
    "open_merge_requests_count": 1,
    "subscribed": false,
    "priority": null,
    "is_project_label": true
  },
  {
    "id" : 8,
    "name" : "documentation",
    "color" : "#f0ad4e",
    "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
    "description": "Issue about documentation",
    "open_issues_count": 1,
    "closed_issues_count": 0,
    "open_merge_requests_count": 2,
    "subscribed": false,
    "priority": null,
    "is_project_label": false
  },
  {
    "id" : 9,
    "color" : "#5cb85c",
    "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
    "name" : "enhancement",
    "description": "Enhancement proposal",
    "open_issues_count": 1,
    "closed_issues_count": 0,
    "open_merge_requests_count": 1,
    "subscribed": true,
    "priority": null,
    "is_project_label": true
  }
]
```

## Create a new label

Creates a new label for the given repository with the given name and color.

```
POST /projects/:id/labels
```

| Attribute     | Type    | Required | Description                  |
| ------------- | ------- | -------- | ---------------------------- |
| `id`      | integer/string    | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `name`        | string  | yes      | The name of the label        |
| `color`       | string  | yes      | The color of the label given in 6-digit hex notation with leading '#' sign (e.g. #FFAABB) or one of the [CSS color names](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value#Color_keywords) |
| `description` | string  | no       | The description of the label |
| `priority`    | integer | no       | The priority of the label. Must be greater or equal than zero or `null` to remove the priority. |

```bash
curl --data "name=feature&color=#5843AD" --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/labels"
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id" : 10,
  "name" : "feature",
  "color" : "#5843AD",
  "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
  "description":null,
  "open_issues_count": 0,
  "closed_issues_count": 0,
  "open_merge_requests_count": 0,
  "subscribed": false,
  "priority": null,
    "is_project_label": true
}
```

## Delete a label

Deletes a label with a given name.

```
DELETE /projects/:id/labels
```

| Attribute | Type    | Required | Description           |
| --------- | ------- | -------- | --------------------- |
| `id`      | integer/string    | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `name`    | string  | yes      | The name of the label |

```bash
curl --request DELETE --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/labels?name=bug"
```

## Edit an existing label

Updates an existing label with new name or new color. At least one parameter
is required, to update the label.

```
PUT /projects/:id/labels
```

| Attribute       | Type    | Required                          | Description                      |
| --------------- | ------- | --------------------------------- | -------------------------------  |
| `id`      | integer/string    | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `name`          | string  | yes                               | The name of the existing label   |
| `new_name`      | string  | yes if `color` is not provided    | The new name of the label        |
| `color`         | string  | yes if `new_name` is not provided | The color of the label given in 6-digit hex notation with leading '#' sign (e.g. #FFAABB) or one of the [CSS color names](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value#Color_keywords) |
| `description`   | string  | no                                | The new description of the label |
| `priority`    | integer | no       | The new priority of the label. Must be greater or equal than zero or `null` to remove the priority. |

```bash
curl --request PUT --data "name=documentation&new_name=docs&color=#8E44AD&description=Documentation" --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/labels"
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id" : 8,
  "name" : "docs",
  "color" : "#8E44AD",
  "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
  "description": "Documentation",
  "open_issues_count": 1,
  "closed_issues_count": 0,
  "open_merge_requests_count": 2,
  "subscribed": false,
  "priority": null,
  "is_project_label": true
}
```

## Subscribe to a label

Subscribes the authenticated user to a label to receive notifications.
If the user is already subscribed to the label, the status code `304`
is returned.

```
POST /projects/:id/labels/:label_id/subscribe
```

| Attribute  | Type              | Required | Description                          |
| ---------- | ----------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `id`      | integer/string    | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `label_id` | integer or string | yes      | The ID or title of a project's label |

```bash
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/labels/1/subscribe
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id" : 1,
  "name" : "bug",
  "color" : "#d9534f",
  "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
  "description": "Bug reported by user",
  "open_issues_count": 1,
  "closed_issues_count": 0,
  "open_merge_requests_count": 1,
  "subscribed": true,
  "priority": null,
  "is_project_label": true
}
```

## Unsubscribe from a label

Unsubscribes the authenticated user from a label to not receive notifications
from it. If the user is not subscribed to the label, the
status code `304` is returned.

```
POST /projects/:id/labels/:label_id/unsubscribe
```

| Attribute  | Type              | Required | Description                          |
| ---------- | ----------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `id`      | integer/string    | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `label_id` | integer or string | yes      | The ID or title of a project's label |

```bash
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/labels/1/unsubscribe
```

Commit message:

Remove label issue and MR counts from default API responses
These counts significantly increase the load time for these
requests. Users can now opt in to receiving the counts by setting
`with_counts=true` in requests. This is a breaking change, but hopefully
a fairly minor one.

doc/api/labels.md, after:

# Labels API

## List labels

Get all labels for a given project.

```
GET /projects/:id/labels
```

| Attribute     | Type           | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ---------     | -------        | -------- | ---------------------                                                                                                                                                        |
| `id`          | integer/string | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user                                                              |
| `with_counts` | boolean        | no       | Whether or not to include issue and merge request counts. Defaults to `false`. _([Introduced in GitLab 12.2](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/merge_requests/31543))_ |

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/labels?with_counts=true
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "id" : 1,
    "name" : "bug",
    "color" : "#d9534f",
    "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
    "description": "Bug reported by user",
    "open_issues_count": 1,
    "closed_issues_count": 0,
    "open_merge_requests_count": 1,
    "subscribed": false,
    "priority": 10,
    "is_project_label": true
  },
  {
    "id" : 4,
    "color" : "#d9534f",
    "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
    "name" : "confirmed",
    "description": "Confirmed issue",
    "open_issues_count": 2,
    "closed_issues_count": 5,
    "open_merge_requests_count": 0,
    "subscribed": false,
    "priority": null,
    "is_project_label": true
  },
  {
    "id" : 7,
    "name" : "critical",
    "color" : "#d9534f",
    "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
    "description": "Critical issue. Need fix ASAP",
    "open_issues_count": 1,
    "closed_issues_count": 3,
    "open_merge_requests_count": 1,
    "subscribed": false,
    "priority": null,
    "is_project_label": true
  },
  {
    "id" : 8,
    "name" : "documentation",
    "color" : "#f0ad4e",
    "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
    "description": "Issue about documentation",
    "open_issues_count": 1,
    "closed_issues_count": 0,
    "open_merge_requests_count": 2,
    "subscribed": false,
    "priority": null,
    "is_project_label": false
  },
  {
    "id" : 9,
    "color" : "#5cb85c",
    "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
    "name" : "enhancement",
    "description": "Enhancement proposal",
    "open_issues_count": 1,
    "closed_issues_count": 0,
    "open_merge_requests_count": 1,
    "subscribed": true,
    "priority": null,
    "is_project_label": true
  }
]
```

## Create a new label

Creates a new label for the given repository with the given name and color.

```
POST /projects/:id/labels
```

| Attribute     | Type    | Required | Description                  |
| ------------- | ------- | -------- | ---------------------------- |
| `id`      | integer/string    | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `name`        | string  | yes      | The name of the label        |
| `color`       | string  | yes      | The color of the label given in 6-digit hex notation with leading '#' sign (e.g. #FFAABB) or one of the [CSS color names](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value#Color_keywords) |
| `description` | string  | no       | The description of the label |
| `priority`    | integer | no       | The priority of the label. Must be greater or equal than zero or `null` to remove the priority. |

```bash
curl --data "name=feature&color=#5843AD" --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/labels"
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id" : 10,
  "name" : "feature",
  "color" : "#5843AD",
  "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
  "description":null,
  "open_issues_count": 0,
  "closed_issues_count": 0,
  "open_merge_requests_count": 0,
  "subscribed": false,
  "priority": null,
    "is_project_label": true
}
```

## Delete a label

Deletes a label with a given name.

```
DELETE /projects/:id/labels
```

| Attribute | Type    | Required | Description           |
| --------- | ------- | -------- | --------------------- |
| `id`      | integer/string    | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `name`    | string  | yes      | The name of the label |

```bash
curl --request DELETE --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/labels?name=bug"
```

## Edit an existing label

Updates an existing label with new name or new color. At least one parameter
is required, to update the label.

```
PUT /projects/:id/labels
```

| Attribute       | Type    | Required                          | Description                      |
| --------------- | ------- | --------------------------------- | -------------------------------  |
| `id`      | integer/string    | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `name`          | string  | yes                               | The name of the existing label   |
| `new_name`      | string  | yes if `color` is not provided    | The new name of the label        |
| `color`         | string  | yes if `new_name` is not provided | The color of the label given in 6-digit hex notation with leading '#' sign (e.g. #FFAABB) or one of the [CSS color names](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value#Color_keywords) |
| `description`   | string  | no                                | The new description of the label |
| `priority`    | integer | no       | The new priority of the label. Must be greater or equal than zero or `null` to remove the priority. |

```bash
curl --request PUT --data "name=documentation&new_name=docs&color=#8E44AD&description=Documentation" --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/labels"
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id" : 8,
  "name" : "docs",
  "color" : "#8E44AD",
  "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
  "description": "Documentation",
  "open_issues_count": 1,
  "closed_issues_count": 0,
  "open_merge_requests_count": 2,
  "subscribed": false,
  "priority": null,
  "is_project_label": true
}
```

## Subscribe to a label

Subscribes the authenticated user to a label to receive notifications.
If the user is already subscribed to the label, the status code `304`
is returned.

```
POST /projects/:id/labels/:label_id/subscribe
```

| Attribute  | Type              | Required | Description                          |
| ---------- | ----------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `id`      | integer/string    | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `label_id` | integer or string | yes      | The ID or title of a project's label |

```bash
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/labels/1/subscribe
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id" : 1,
  "name" : "bug",
  "color" : "#d9534f",
  "text_color" : "#FFFFFF",
  "description": "Bug reported by user",
  "open_issues_count": 1,
  "closed_issues_count": 0,
  "open_merge_requests_count": 1,
  "subscribed": true,
  "priority": null,
  "is_project_label": true
}
```

## Unsubscribe from a label

Unsubscribes the authenticated user from a label to not receive notifications
from it. If the user is not subscribed to the label, the
status code `304` is returned.

```
POST /projects/:id/labels/:label_id/unsubscribe
```

| Attribute  | Type              | Required | Description                          |
| ---------- | ----------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `id`      | integer/string    | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `label_id` | integer or string | yes      | The ID or title of a project's label |

```bash
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/labels/1/unsubscribe
```
