doc/api/project_import_export.md, before:

# Project import/export API

[Introduced][ce-41899] in GitLab 10.6

[See also the project import/export documentation](../user/project/settings/import_export.md)

## Schedule an export

Start a new export.

The endpoint also accepts an `upload` param. This param is a hash that contains
all the necessary information to upload the exported project to a web server or
to any S3-compatible platform. At the moment we only support binary
data file uploads to the final server.

If the `upload` params is present, `upload[url]` param is required.
 (**Note:** This feature was introduced in GitLab 10.7)

```http
POST /projects/:id/export
```

| Attribute | Type           | Required | Description                              |
| --------- | -------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `id`      | integer/string | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `description`      | string | no | Overrides the project description |
| `upload`      | hash | no | Hash that contains the information to upload the exported project to a web server |
| `upload[url]`      | string | yes      | The URL to upload the project |
| `upload[http_method]`      | string | no      | The HTTP method to upload the exported project. Only `PUT` and `POST` methods allowed. Default is `PUT` |

```console
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/export --data "description=FooBar&upload[http_method]=PUT&upload[url]=https://example-bucket.s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/backup?X-Amz-Algorithm=AWS4-HMAC-SHA256&X-Amz-Credential=AKIAIMBJHN2O62W8IELQ%2F20180312%2Feu-west-3%2Fs3%2Faws4_request&X-Amz-Date=20180312T110328Z&X-Amz-Expires=900&X-Amz-SignedHeaders=host&X-Amz-Signature=8413facb20ff33a49a147a0b4abcff4c8487cc33ee1f7e450c46e8f695569dbd"
```

```json
{
  "message": "202 Accepted"
}
```

## Export status

Get the status of export.

```http
GET /projects/:id/export
```

| Attribute | Type           | Required | Description                              |
| --------- | -------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `id`      | integer/string | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |

```console
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/export
```

Status can be one of `none`, `started`, `after_export_action` or `finished`. The
`after_export_action` state represents that the export process has been completed successfully and
the platform is performing some actions on the resulted file. For example, sending
an email notifying the user to download the file, uploading the exported file
to a web server, etc.

`_links` are only present when export has finished.

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "description": "Itaque perspiciatis minima aspernatur corporis consequatur.",
  "name": "Gitlab Test",
  "name_with_namespace": "Gitlab Org / Gitlab Test",
  "path": "gitlab-test",
  "path_with_namespace": "gitlab-org/gitlab-test",
  "created_at": "2017-08-29T04:36:44.383Z",
  "export_status": "finished",
  "_links": {
    "api_url": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/export/download",
    "web_url": "https://gitlab.example.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-test/download_export",
  }
}
```

## Export download

Download the finished export.

```http
GET /projects/:id/export/download
```

| Attribute | Type           | Required | Description                              |
| --------- | -------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `id`      | integer/string | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |

```console
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" --remote-header-name --remote-name https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/export/download
```

```console
ls *export.tar.gz
2017-12-05_22-11-148_namespace_project_export.tar.gz
```

## Import a file

```http
POST /projects/import
```

| Attribute | Type           | Required | Description                              |
| --------- | -------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `namespace` | integer/string | no | The ID or path of the namespace that the project will be imported to. Defaults to the current user's namespace |
| `file` | string | yes | The file to be uploaded |
| `path` | string | yes | Name and path for new project |

To upload a file from your filesystem, use the `--form` argument. This causes
cURL to post data using the header `Content-Type: multipart/form-data`.
The `file=` parameter must point to a file on your filesystem and be preceded
by `@`. For example:

```console
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" --form "path=api-project" --form "file=@/path/to/file" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/import
```

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "description": null,
  "name": "api-project",
  "name_with_namespace": "Administrator / api-project",
  "path": "api-project",
  "path_with_namespace": "root/api-project",
  "created_at": "2018-02-13T09:05:58.023Z",
  "import_status": "scheduled"
}
```

## Import status

Get the status of an import.

```http
GET /projects/:id/import
```

| Attribute | Type           | Required | Description                              |
| --------- | -------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `id`      | integer/string | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |

```console
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/import
```

Status can be one of `none`, `scheduled`, `failed`, `started`, or `finished`.

If the status is `failed`, it will include the import error message under `import_error`.

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "description": "Itaque perspiciatis minima aspernatur corporis consequatur.",
  "name": "Gitlab Test",
  "name_with_namespace": "Gitlab Org / Gitlab Test",
  "path": "gitlab-test",
  "path_with_namespace": "gitlab-org/gitlab-test",
  "created_at": "2017-08-29T04:36:44.383Z",
  "import_status": "started"
}
```

[ce-41899]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/41899

Commit message:

Override project params when importing a project
This includes the classification label

doc/api/project_import_export.md, after:

# Project import/export API

[Introduced][ce-41899] in GitLab 10.6

[See also the project import/export documentation](../user/project/settings/import_export.md)

## Schedule an export

Start a new export.

The endpoint also accepts an `upload` param. This param is a hash that contains
all the necessary information to upload the exported project to a web server or
to any S3-compatible platform. At the moment we only support binary
data file uploads to the final server.

If the `upload` params is present, `upload[url]` param is required.
 (**Note:** This feature was introduced in GitLab 10.7)

```http
POST /projects/:id/export
```

| Attribute | Type           | Required | Description                              |
| --------- | -------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `id`      | integer/string | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |
| `description`      | string | no | Overrides the project description |
| `upload`      | hash | no | Hash that contains the information to upload the exported project to a web server |
| `upload[url]`      | string | yes      | The URL to upload the project |
| `upload[http_method]`      | string | no      | The HTTP method to upload the exported project. Only `PUT` and `POST` methods allowed. Default is `PUT` |

```console
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/export --data "description=FooBar&upload[http_method]=PUT&upload[url]=https://example-bucket.s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/backup?X-Amz-Algorithm=AWS4-HMAC-SHA256&X-Amz-Credential=AKIAIMBJHN2O62W8IELQ%2F20180312%2Feu-west-3%2Fs3%2Faws4_request&X-Amz-Date=20180312T110328Z&X-Amz-Expires=900&X-Amz-SignedHeaders=host&X-Amz-Signature=8413facb20ff33a49a147a0b4abcff4c8487cc33ee1f7e450c46e8f695569dbd"
```

```json
{
  "message": "202 Accepted"
}
```

## Export status

Get the status of export.

```http
GET /projects/:id/export
```

| Attribute | Type           | Required | Description                              |
| --------- | -------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `id`      | integer/string | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |

```console
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/export
```

Status can be one of `none`, `started`, `after_export_action` or `finished`. The
`after_export_action` state represents that the export process has been completed successfully and
the platform is performing some actions on the resulted file. For example, sending
an email notifying the user to download the file, uploading the exported file
to a web server, etc.

`_links` are only present when export has finished.

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "description": "Itaque perspiciatis minima aspernatur corporis consequatur.",
  "name": "Gitlab Test",
  "name_with_namespace": "Gitlab Org / Gitlab Test",
  "path": "gitlab-test",
  "path_with_namespace": "gitlab-org/gitlab-test",
  "created_at": "2017-08-29T04:36:44.383Z",
  "export_status": "finished",
  "_links": {
    "api_url": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/export/download",
    "web_url": "https://gitlab.example.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-test/download_export",
  }
}
```

## Export download

Download the finished export.

```http
GET /projects/:id/export/download
```

| Attribute | Type           | Required | Description                              |
| --------- | -------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `id`      | integer/string | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |

```console
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" --remote-header-name --remote-name https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/5/export/download
```

```console
ls *export.tar.gz
2017-12-05_22-11-148_namespace_project_export.tar.gz
```

## Import a file

```http
POST /projects/import
```

| Attribute | Type           | Required | Description                              |
| --------- | -------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `namespace` | integer/string | no | The ID or path of the namespace that the project will be imported to. Defaults to the current user's namespace |
| `file` | string | yes | The file to be uploaded |
| `path` | string | yes | Name and path for new project |
| `override_params` | Hash | no | Supports all fields defined in the [Project API](projects.md)] |

The override params passed will take precendence over all values defined inside the export file.

To upload a file from your filesystem, use the `--form` argument. This causes
cURL to post data using the header `Content-Type: multipart/form-data`.
The `file=` parameter must point to a file on your filesystem and be preceded
by `@`. For example:

```console
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" --form "path=api-project" --form "file=@/path/to/file" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/import
```

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "description": null,
  "name": "api-project",
  "name_with_namespace": "Administrator / api-project",
  "path": "api-project",
  "path_with_namespace": "root/api-project",
  "created_at": "2018-02-13T09:05:58.023Z",
  "import_status": "scheduled"
}
```

## Import status

Get the status of an import.

```http
GET /projects/:id/import
```

| Attribute | Type           | Required | Description                              |
| --------- | -------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `id`      | integer/string | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user |

```console
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: 9koXpg98eAheJpvBs5tK" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/import
```

Status can be one of `none`, `scheduled`, `failed`, `started`, or `finished`.

If the status is `failed`, it will include the import error message under `import_error`.

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "description": "Itaque perspiciatis minima aspernatur corporis consequatur.",
  "name": "Gitlab Test",
  "name_with_namespace": "Gitlab Org / Gitlab Test",
  "path": "gitlab-test",
  "path_with_namespace": "gitlab-org/gitlab-test",
  "created_at": "2017-08-29T04:36:44.383Z",
  "import_status": "started"
}
```

[ce-41899]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/41899
