doc/workflow/merge_requests.md, before:

# Merge Requests

Merge requests allow you to exchange changes you made to source code

## Only allow merge requests to be merged if the build succeeds

You can prevent merge requests from being merged if their build did not succeed
in the project settings page.

![only_allow_merge_if_build_succeeds](merge_requests/only_allow_merge_if_build_succeeds.png)

Navigate to project settings page and select the `Only allow merge requests to be merged if the build succeeds` check box.

Please note that you need to have builds configured to enable this feature.

## Checkout merge requests locally

Locate the section for your GitLab remote in the `.git/config` file. It looks like this:

```
[remote "origin"]
  url = https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce.git
  fetch = +refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/origin/*
```

Now add the line `fetch = +refs/merge-requests/*/head:refs/remotes/origin/merge-requests/*` to this section.

It should look like this:

```
[remote "origin"]
  url = https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce.git
  fetch = +refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/origin/*
  fetch = +refs/merge-requests/*/head:refs/remotes/origin/merge-requests/*
```

Now you can fetch all the merge requests requests:

```
$ git fetch origin
From https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce.git
 * [new ref]         refs/merge-requests/1/head -> origin/merge-requests/1
 * [new ref]         refs/merge-requests/2/head -> origin/merge-requests/2
...
```

To check out a particular merge request:

```
$ git checkout origin/merge-requests/1
```

## Ignore whitespace changes in Merge Request diff view

![MR diff](merge_requests/merge_request_diff.png)

If you click the "Hide whitespace changes" button, you can see the diff without whitespace changes.

![MR diff without whitespace](merge_requests/merge_request_diff_without_whitespace.png)

It is also working on commits compare view.

![Commit Compare](merge_requests/commit_compare.png)

Commit message:

Update merge_requests.md with a simpler way to check out a merge request
The previous way was put under the
"By modifying `.git/config` for a given repository" section. The
disadvantage is that one has to modify `.git/config` for each repository
that one uses. The new way was put under the "By adding a git alias"
section. One has to create this git alias once, and then it will work
from any repository, without having to modify `.git/config` over and
over again.

doc/workflow/merge_requests.md, after:

# Merge Requests

Merge requests allow you to exchange changes you made to source code

## Only allow merge requests to be merged if the build succeeds

You can prevent merge requests from being merged if their build did not succeed
in the project settings page.

![only_allow_merge_if_build_succeeds](merge_requests/only_allow_merge_if_build_succeeds.png)

Navigate to project settings page and select the `Only allow merge requests to be merged if the build succeeds` check box.

Please note that you need to have builds configured to enable this feature.

## Checkout merge requests locally

### By adding a git alias

Add the following alias to your `~/.gitconfig`:
```
[alias]
    mr = !sh -c 'git fetch origin merge-requests/$1/head:mr-$1 && git checkout mr-$1' -
```
Now you can check out a particular merge request from any repository (it will use the `origin` remote) by:
```
$ git mr 5
```
This will fetch the merge request into a local `mr-5` branch and check it out.

### By modifying `.git/config` for a given repository

Locate the section for your GitLab remote in the `.git/config` file. It looks like this:

```
[remote "origin"]
  url = https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce.git
  fetch = +refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/origin/*
```

Now add the line `fetch = +refs/merge-requests/*/head:refs/remotes/origin/merge-requests/*` to this section.

It should look like this:

```
[remote "origin"]
  url = https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce.git
  fetch = +refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/origin/*
  fetch = +refs/merge-requests/*/head:refs/remotes/origin/merge-requests/*
```

Now you can fetch all the merge requests requests:

```
$ git fetch origin
From https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce.git
 * [new ref]         refs/merge-requests/1/head -> origin/merge-requests/1
 * [new ref]         refs/merge-requests/2/head -> origin/merge-requests/2
...
```

To check out a particular merge request:

```
$ git checkout origin/merge-requests/1
```

## Ignore whitespace changes in Merge Request diff view

![MR diff](merge_requests/merge_request_diff.png)

If you click the "Hide whitespace changes" button, you can see the diff without whitespace changes.

![MR diff without whitespace](merge_requests/merge_request_diff_without_whitespace.png)

It is also working on commits compare view.

![Commit Compare](merge_requests/commit_compare.png)
