doc/workflow/slash_commands.md, before:

# GitLab slash commands

Slash commands are textual shortcuts for common actions on issues or merge
requests that are usually done by clicking buttons or dropdowns in GitLab's UI.
You can enter these commands while creating a new issue or merge request, and
in comments. Each command should be on a separate line in order to be properly
detected and executed. The commands are removed from the issue, merge request or
comment body before it is saved and will not be visible to anyone else.

Below is a list of all of the available commands and descriptions about what they
do.

| Command                    | Action       |
|:---------------------------|:-------------|
| `/close`                   | Close the issue or merge request |
| `/reopen`                  | Reopen the issue or merge request |
| `/title <New title>`       | Change title |
| `/assign @username`        | Assign |
| `/unassign`                | Remove assignee |
| `/milestone %milestone`    | Set milestone |
| `/remove_milestone`        | Remove milestone |
| `/label ~foo ~"bar baz"`   | Add label(s) |
| `/unlabel ~foo ~"bar baz"` | Remove all or specific label(s) |
| `/relabel ~foo ~"bar baz"` | Replace all label(s) |
| `/todo`                    | Add a todo |
| `/done`                    | Mark todo as done |
| `/subscribe`               | Subscribe |
| `/unsubscribe`             | Unsubscribe |
| `/due <in 2 days | this Friday | December 31st>` | Set due date |
| `/remove_due_date`          | Remove due date |

Commit message:

Add KB about Create issue from email and more information about slash commands

doc/workflow/slash_commands.md, after:

# GitLab slash commands

Slash commands are textual shortcuts for common actions on issues or merge
requests that are usually done by clicking buttons or dropdowns in GitLab's UI.
You can enter these commands while creating a new issue or merge request, and
in comments. Each command should be on a separate line in order to be properly
detected and executed. The commands are removed from the issue, merge request or
comment body before it is saved and will not be visible to anyone else.

As these commands are text-based, they are also interpreted when replying by
email, or when a new issue is [created by email](create_issue_from_email.md).
This lets you have control over GitLab without even going through the UI.

Below is a list of all of the available commands and descriptions about what
they do.

| Command                    | Action       |
|:---------------------------|:-------------|
| `/close`                   | Close the issue or merge request |
| `/reopen`                  | Reopen the issue or merge request |
| `/title <New title>`       | Change title |
| `/assign @username`        | Assign |
| `/unassign`                | Remove assignee |
| `/milestone %milestone`    | Set milestone |
| `/remove_milestone`        | Remove milestone |
| `/label ~foo ~"bar baz"`   | Add label(s) |
| `/unlabel ~foo ~"bar baz"` | Remove all or specific label(s) |
| `/relabel ~foo ~"bar baz"` | Replace all label(s) |
| `/todo`                    | Add a todo |
| `/done`                    | Mark todo as done |
| `/subscribe`               | Subscribe |
| `/unsubscribe`             | Unsubscribe |
| `/due <in 2 days | this Friday | December 31st>` | Set due date |
| `/remove_due_date`          | Remove due date |
