doc/ci/examples/README.md, before:

# CI Examples

A collection of `.gitlab-ci.yml` files is maintained at the [GitLab CI Yml project][gitlab-ci-templates].
If your favorite programming language or framework are missing we would love your help by sending a merge request
with a `.gitlab-ci.yml`.

Apart from those, here is an collection of tutorials and guides on setting up your CI pipeline:

- [Testing a PHP application](php.md)
- [Test and deploy a Ruby application to Heroku](test-and-deploy-ruby-application-to-heroku.md)
- [Test and deploy a Python application to Heroku](test-and-deploy-python-application-to-heroku.md)
- [Test a Clojure application](test-clojure-application.md)
- [Test a Scala application](test-scala-application.md)
- [Test a Phoenix application](test-phoenix-application.md)
- [Using `dpl` as deployment tool](deployment/README.md)
- [Example project that shows how to use Review Apps](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-examples/review-apps-nginx/)
- [Blog post about using GitLab CI for iOS projects](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/03/10/setting-up-gitlab-ci-for-ios-projects/)
- [Repositories with examples for various languages](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-examples)
- [The .gitlab-ci.yml file for GitLab itself](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/master/.gitlab-ci.yml)

[gitlab-ci-templates]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ci-yml

Commit message:

Add Play/Scala CI example with deployment to Heroku

doc/ci/examples/README.md, after:

# CI Examples

A collection of `.gitlab-ci.yml` files is maintained at the [GitLab CI Yml project][gitlab-ci-templates].
If your favorite programming language or framework are missing we would love your help by sending a merge request
with a `.gitlab-ci.yml`.

Apart from those, here is an collection of tutorials and guides on setting up your CI pipeline:

- [Testing a PHP application](php.md)
- [Test and deploy a Ruby application to Heroku](test-and-deploy-ruby-application-to-heroku.md)
- [Test and deploy a Python application to Heroku](test-and-deploy-python-application-to-heroku.md)
- [Test and deploy a Scala/Play application to Heroku](test-and-deploy-scala-play-application-to-heroku.md)
- [Test a Clojure application](test-clojure-application.md)
- [Test a Scala application](test-scala-application.md)
- [Test a Phoenix application](test-phoenix-application.md)
- [Using `dpl` as deployment tool](deployment/README.md)
- [Example project that shows how to use Review Apps](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-examples/review-apps-nginx/)
- [Blog post about using GitLab CI for iOS projects](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/03/10/setting-up-gitlab-ci-for-ios-projects/)
- [Repositories with examples for various languages](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-examples)
- [The .gitlab-ci.yml file for GitLab itself](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/master/.gitlab-ci.yml)

[gitlab-ci-templates]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ci-yml
