doc/user/project/integrations/prometheus.md, before:

# Prometheus integration

> [Introduced][ce-8935] in GitLab 9.0.

GitLab offers powerful integration with [Prometheus] for monitoring key metrics of your apps, directly within GitLab.
Metrics for each environment are retrieved from Prometheus, and then displayed
within the GitLab interface.

![Environment Dashboard](img/prometheus_dashboard.png)

There are two ways to set up Prometheus integration, depending on where your apps are running:

- For deployments on Kubernetes, GitLab can automatically [deploy and manage Prometheus](#managed-prometheus-on-kubernetes).
- For other deployment targets, simply [specify the Prometheus server](#manual-configuration-of-prometheus).

Once enabled, GitLab will automatically detect metrics from known services in the [metric library](#monitoring-cicd-environments). You are also able to [add your own metrics](#adding-additional-metrics-premium) as well.

## Enabling Prometheus Integration

### Managed Prometheus on Kubernetes

> **Note**: [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/28916) in GitLab 10.5

GitLab can seamlessly deploy and manage Prometheus on a [connected Kubernetes cluster](../clusters/index.md), making monitoring of your apps easy.

#### Requirements

- A [connected Kubernetes cluster](../clusters/index.md)
- Helm Tiller [installed by GitLab](../clusters/index.md#installing-applications)

#### Getting started

Once you have a connected Kubernetes cluster with Helm installed, deploying a managed Prometheus is as easy as a single click.

1. Go to the **Operations > Kubernetes** page to view your connected clusters
1. Select the cluster you would like to deploy Prometheus to
1. Click the **Install** button to deploy Prometheus to the cluster

![Managed Prometheus Deploy](img/prometheus_deploy.png)

#### About managed Prometheus deployments

Prometheus is deployed into the `gitlab-managed-apps` namespace, using the [official Helm chart](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/prometheus). Prometheus is only accessible within the cluster, with GitLab communicating through the [Kubernetes API](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/kubernetes-api/).

The Prometheus server will [automatically detect and monitor](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#kubernetes_sd_config) nodes, pods, and endpoints. To configure a resource to be monitored by Prometheus, simply set the following [Kubernetes annotations](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/):

- `prometheus.io/scrape` to `true` to enable monitoring of the resource.
- `prometheus.io/port` to define the port of the metrics endpoint.
- `prometheus.io/path` to define the path of the metrics endpoint. Defaults to `/metrics`.

CPU and Memory consumption is monitored, but requires [naming conventions](prometheus_library/kubernetes.html#specifying-the-environment) in order to determine the environment. If you are using [Auto DevOps](../../../topics/autodevops/), this is handled automatically.

The [NGINX Ingress](../clusters/index.md#installing-applications) that is deployed by GitLab to clusters, is automatically annotated for monitoring providing key response metrics: latency, throughput, and error rates.

### Manual configuration of Prometheus

#### Requirements

Integration with Prometheus requires the following:

1. GitLab 9.0 or higher
1. Prometheus must be configured to collect one of the [supported metrics](prometheus_library/index.md)
1. Each metric must be have a label to indicate the environment
1. GitLab must have network connectivity to the Prometheus server

#### Getting started

Installing and configuring Prometheus to monitor applications is fairly straight forward.

1. [Install Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/installation/)
1. Set up one of the [supported monitoring targets](prometheus_library/index.md)
1. Configure the Prometheus server to [collect their metrics](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#scrape_config)

#### Configuration in GitLab

The actual configuration of Prometheus integration within GitLab is very simple.
All you will need is the DNS or IP address of the Prometheus server you'd like
to integrate with.

1. Navigate to the [Integrations page](project_services.md#accessing-the-project-services)
1. Click the **Prometheus** service
1. Provide the base URL of the your server, for example `http://prometheus.example.com/`.
   The **Test Settings** button can be used to confirm connectivity from GitLab
   to the Prometheus server.

![Configure Prometheus Service](img/prometheus_service_configuration.png)

## Monitoring CI/CD Environments

Once configured, GitLab will attempt to retrieve performance metrics for any
environment which has had a successful deployment.

GitLab will automatically scan the Prometheus server for metrics from known servers like Kubernetes and NGINX, and attempt to identify individual environment. The supported metrics and scan process is detailed in our [Prometheus Metrics Library documentation](prometheus_library/index.md).

You can view the performance dashboard for an environment by [clicking on the monitoring button](../../../ci/environments.md#monitoring-environments).

### Adding additional metrics **(PREMIUM)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ee/merge_requests/3799) in [GitLab Premium](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 10.6.

Additional metrics can be monitored by adding them on the Prometheus integration page. Once saved, they will be displayed on the environment performance dashboard.

![Add New Metric](img/prometheus_add_metric.png)

A few fields are required:

- **Name**: Chart title
- **Type**: Type of metric. Metrics of the same type will be shown together.
- **Query**: Valid [PromQL query](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/basics/).
- **Y-axis label**: Y axis title to display on the dashboard.
- **Unit label**: Query units, for example `req / sec`. Shown next to the value.

Multiple metrics can be displayed on the same chart if the fields **Name**, **Type**, and **Y-axis label** match between metrics. For example, a metric with **Name** `Requests Rate`, **Type** `Business`, and **Y-axis label** `rec / sec` would display on the same chart as a second metric with the same values. A **Legend label** is suggested if this feature used.

#### Query Variables

GitLab supports a limited set of [CI variables](../../../ci/variables/README.html) in the Prometheus query. This is particularly useful for identifying a specific environment, for example with `CI_ENVIRONMENT_SLUG`. The supported variables are:

- CI_ENVIRONMENT_SLUG
- KUBE_NAMESPACE

To specify a variable in a query, enclose it in curly braces with a leading percent. For example: `%{ci_environment_slug}`.

### Defining custom dashboards per project

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/59974) in GitLab 12.1.

By default, all projects include a GitLab-defined Prometheus dashboard, which
includes a few key metrics, but you can also define your own custom dashboards.

NOTE: **Note:**
The custom metrics as defined below do not support alerts, unlike
[additional metrics](#adding-additional-metrics-premium).

Dashboards have several components:

- Panel groups, which comprise panels.
- Panels, which support one or more metrics.

To configure a custom dashboard:

1. Create a YAML file with the `.yml` extension under your repository's root
   directory inside `.gitlab/dashboards/`. For example, create
   `.gitlab/dashboards/prom_alerts.yml` with the following contents:

   ```yaml
   dashboard: 'Dashboard Title'
   panel_groups:
     - group: 'Group Title'
       panels:
         - type: area-chart
           title: "Chart Title"
           y_label: "Y-Axis"
           metrics:
             - id: metric_of_ages
               query_range: 'http_requests_total'
               label: "Metric of Ages"
               unit: "count"
   ```

   The above sample dashboard would display a single area chart. Each file should
   define the layout of the dashboard and the Prometheus queries used to populate
   data.

1. Save the file, commit, and push to your repository.
1. Navigate to your project's **Operations > Metrics** and choose the custom
   dashboard from the dropdown.

NOTE: **Note:**
Configuration files nested under subdirectories of `.gitlab/dashboards` are not
supported and will not be available in the UI.

The following tables outline the details of expected properties.

**Dashboard properties:**

| Property | Type | Required | Description |
| ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| `dashboard` | string | yes | Heading for the dashboard. Only one dashboard should be defined per file. |
| `panel_groups` | array | yes | The panel groups which should be on the dashboard. |

**Panel group (`panel_groups`) properties:**

| Property | Type | Required | Description |
| ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| `group` | string | required | Heading for the panel group. |
| `priority` | number | optional, defaults to order in file | Order to appear on the dashboard. Higher number means higher priority, which will be higher on the page. Numbers do not need to be consecutive. |
| `panels` | array | required | The panels which should be in the panel group. |

**Panel (`panels`) properties:**

| Property | Type | Required | Description |
| ------ | ------ | ------ | ------- |
| `type` | enum | no, defaults to `area-chart` | Specifies the chart type to use. |
| `title` | string | yes | Heading for the panel. |
| `y_label` | string | no, but highly encouraged | Y-Axis label for the panel. |
| `weight` | number | no, defaults to order in file | Order to appear within the grouping. Lower number means higher priority, which will be higher on the page. Numbers do not need to be consecutive. |
| `metrics` | array | yes | The metrics which should be displayed in the panel. |

**Metrics (`metrics`) properties:**

| Property | Type | Required | Description |
| ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| `id` | string | no | Used for associating dashboard metrics with database records. Must be unique across dashboard configuration files. Required for [alerting](#setting-up-alerts-for-prometheus-metrics-ultimate) (support not yet enabled, see [relevant issue](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/60319)). |
| `unit` | string | yes | Defines the unit of the query's return data. |
| `label` | string | no, but highly encouraged | Defines the legend-label for the query. Should be unique within the panel's metrics. |
| `query` | string | yes if `query_range` is not defined | Defines the Prometheus query to be used to populate the chart/panel. If defined, the `query` endpoint of the [Prometheus API](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api/) will be utilized. |
| `query_range` | string | yes if `query` is not defined | Defines the Prometheus query to be used to populate the chart/panel. If defined, the `query_range` endpoint of the [Prometheus API](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api/) will be utilized. |

#### Panel types for dashboards

The below panel types are supported in monitoring dashboards.

##### Area

To add an area panel type to a dashboard, look at the following sample dashboard file:

```yaml
dashboard: 'Dashboard Title'
panel_groups:
  - group: 'Group Title'
    panels:
      - type: area-chart
        title: "Chart Title"
        y_label: "Y-Axis"
        metrics:
          - id: 10
            query_range: 'http_requests_total'
            label: "Metric of Ages"
            unit: "count"
```

Note the following properties:

| Property | Type | Required | Description |
| ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| type | string | no | Type of panel to be rendered. Optional for area panel types |
| query_range | yes | required | For area panel types, you must use a [range query](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api/#range-queries) |

![area panel type](img/prometheus_dashboard_area_panel_type.png)

##### Single Stat

To add a single stat panel type to a dashboard, look at the following sample dashboard file:

```yaml
dashboard: 'Dashboard Title'
panel_groups:
  - group: 'Group Title'
    panels:
      - title: "Single Stat"
        type: "single-stat"
        metrics:
        - id: 10
          query: 'max(go_memstats_alloc_bytes{job="prometheus"})'
          unit: MB
          label: "Total"
```

Note the following properties:

| Property | Type | Required | Description |
| ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| type | string | yes | Type of panel to be rendered. For single stat panel types, set to `single-stat` |
| query | string | yes | For single stat panel types, you must use an [instant query](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api/#instant-queries) |

![single stat panel type](img/prometheus_dashboard_single_stat_panel_type.png)

### Setting up alerts for Prometheus metrics **(ULTIMATE)**

#### Managed Prometheus instances

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ee/merge_requests/6590) in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 11.2 for [custom metrics](#adding-additional-metrics-premium), and 11.3 for [library metrics](prometheus_library/metrics.md).

For managed Prometheus instances using auto configuration, alerts for metrics [can be configured](#adding-additional-metrics-premium) directly in the performance dashboard.

To set an alert, click on the alarm icon in the top right corner of the metric you want to create the alert for. A dropdown
will appear, with options to set the threshold and operator. Click **Add** to save and activate the alert.

![Adding an alert](img/prometheus_alert.png)

To remove the alert, click back on the alert icon for the desired metric, and click **Delete**.

#### External Prometheus instances

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ee/issues/9258) in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 11.8.

For manually configured Prometheus servers, a notify endpoint is provided to use with Prometheus webhooks. If you have manual configuration enabled, an **Alerts** section is added to **Settings > Integrations > Prometheus**. This contains the *URL* and *Authorization Key*. The **Reset Key** button will invalidate the key and generate a new one.

![Prometheus service configuration of Alerts](img/prometheus_service_alerts.png)

To send GitLab alert notifications, copy the *URL* and *Authorization Key* into the [`webhook_configs`](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/configuration/#webhook_config) section of your Prometheus Alertmanager configuration:

```yaml
receivers:
  name: gitlab
  webhook_configs:
  - http_config:
      bearer_token: 9e1cbfcd546896a9ea8be557caf13a76
    send_resolved: true
    url: http://192.168.178.31:3001/root/manual_prometheus/prometheus/alerts/notify.json
  ...
```

### Taking action on incidents **(ULTIMATE)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ee/issues/4925) in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 11.11.

Alerts can be used to trigger actions, like open an issue automatically (enabled by default since `12.1`). To configure the actions:

1. Navigate to your project's **Settings > Operations > Incidents**.
1. Enable the option to create issues.
1. Choose the [issue template](../description_templates.md) to create the issue from.
1. Optionally, select whether to send an email notification to the developers of the project.
1. Click **Save changes**.

Once enabled, an issue will be opened automatically when an alert is triggered which contains values extracted from [alert's payload](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/configuration/#webhook_config
):

- Issue author: `GitLab Alert Bot`
- Issue title: Extract from `annotations/title`, `annotations/summary` or `labels/alertname`
- Alert `Summary`: A list of properties
  - `starts_at`: Alert start time via `startsAt`
  - `full_query`: Alert query extracted from `generatorURL`
  - Optional list of attached annotations extracted from `annotations/*`

To further customize the issue, you can add labels, mentions, or any other supported [quick action](../quick_actions.md) in the selected issue template.

Since [version 12.2](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/63373), GitLab will tag each incident issue with the `incident` label automatically. If the label does not yet exist, it will be created automatically as well.

If the metric exceeds the threshold of the alert for over 5 minutes, an email will be sent to all [Maintainers and Owners](../../permissions.md#project-members-permissions) of the project.

## Determining the performance impact of a merge

> [Introduced][ce-10408] in GitLab 9.2.
> GitLab 9.3 added the [numeric comparison](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/27439) of the 30 minute averages.
> Requires [Kubernetes](prometheus_library/kubernetes.md) metrics

Developers can view the performance impact of their changes within the merge
request workflow. When a source branch has been deployed to an environment, a sparkline and numeric comparison of the average memory consumption will appear. On the sparkline, a dot
indicates when the current changes were deployed, with up to 30 minutes of
performance data displayed before and after. The comparison shows the difference between the 30 minute average before and after the deployment. This information is updated after
each commit has been deployed.

Once merged and the target branch has been redeployed, the metrics will switch
to show the new environments this revision has been deployed to.

Performance data will be available for the duration it is persisted on the
Prometheus server.

![Merge Request with Performance Impact](img/merge_request_performance.png)

## Troubleshooting

If the "No data found" screen continues to appear, it could be due to:

- No successful deployments have occurred to this environment.
- Prometheus does not have performance data for this environment, or the metrics
  are not labeled correctly. To test this, connect to the Prometheus server and
  [run a query](prometheus_library/kubernetes.html#metrics-supported), replacing `$CI_ENVIRONMENT_SLUG`
  with the name of your environment.

[autodeploy]: ../../../ci/autodeploy/index.md
[kubernetes]: https://kubernetes.io
[kube]: ./kubernetes.md
[prometheus-k8s-sd]: https://prometheus.io/docs/operating/configuration/#<kubernetes_sd_config>
[prometheus]: https://prometheus.io
[gitlab-prometheus-k8s-monitor]: ../../../administration/monitoring/prometheus/index.md#configuring-prometheus-to-monitor-kubernetes
[prometheus-docker-image]: https://hub.docker.com/r/prom/prometheus/
[prometheus-yml]:samples/prometheus.yml
[gitlab.com-ip-range]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/infrastructure/issues/434
[ci-environment-slug]: ../../../ci/variables/#predefined-environment-variables
[ce-8935]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/merge_requests/8935
[ce-10408]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/merge_requests/10408
[promgldocs]: ../../../administration/monitoring/prometheus/index.md

Commit message:

Add docs for template field in prometheus alerts

doc/user/project/integrations/prometheus.md, after:

# Prometheus integration

> [Introduced][ce-8935] in GitLab 9.0.

GitLab offers powerful integration with [Prometheus] for monitoring key metrics of your apps, directly within GitLab.
Metrics for each environment are retrieved from Prometheus, and then displayed
within the GitLab interface.

![Environment Dashboard](img/prometheus_dashboard.png)

There are two ways to set up Prometheus integration, depending on where your apps are running:

- For deployments on Kubernetes, GitLab can automatically [deploy and manage Prometheus](#managed-prometheus-on-kubernetes).
- For other deployment targets, simply [specify the Prometheus server](#manual-configuration-of-prometheus).

Once enabled, GitLab will automatically detect metrics from known services in the [metric library](#monitoring-cicd-environments). You are also able to [add your own metrics](#adding-additional-metrics-premium) as well.

## Enabling Prometheus Integration

### Managed Prometheus on Kubernetes

> **Note**: [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/28916) in GitLab 10.5

GitLab can seamlessly deploy and manage Prometheus on a [connected Kubernetes cluster](../clusters/index.md), making monitoring of your apps easy.

#### Requirements

- A [connected Kubernetes cluster](../clusters/index.md)
- Helm Tiller [installed by GitLab](../clusters/index.md#installing-applications)

#### Getting started

Once you have a connected Kubernetes cluster with Helm installed, deploying a managed Prometheus is as easy as a single click.

1. Go to the **Operations > Kubernetes** page to view your connected clusters
1. Select the cluster you would like to deploy Prometheus to
1. Click the **Install** button to deploy Prometheus to the cluster

![Managed Prometheus Deploy](img/prometheus_deploy.png)

#### About managed Prometheus deployments

Prometheus is deployed into the `gitlab-managed-apps` namespace, using the [official Helm chart](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/prometheus). Prometheus is only accessible within the cluster, with GitLab communicating through the [Kubernetes API](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/kubernetes-api/).

The Prometheus server will [automatically detect and monitor](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#kubernetes_sd_config) nodes, pods, and endpoints. To configure a resource to be monitored by Prometheus, simply set the following [Kubernetes annotations](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/):

- `prometheus.io/scrape` to `true` to enable monitoring of the resource.
- `prometheus.io/port` to define the port of the metrics endpoint.
- `prometheus.io/path` to define the path of the metrics endpoint. Defaults to `/metrics`.

CPU and Memory consumption is monitored, but requires [naming conventions](prometheus_library/kubernetes.html#specifying-the-environment) in order to determine the environment. If you are using [Auto DevOps](../../../topics/autodevops/), this is handled automatically.

The [NGINX Ingress](../clusters/index.md#installing-applications) that is deployed by GitLab to clusters, is automatically annotated for monitoring providing key response metrics: latency, throughput, and error rates.

### Manual configuration of Prometheus

#### Requirements

Integration with Prometheus requires the following:

1. GitLab 9.0 or higher
1. Prometheus must be configured to collect one of the [supported metrics](prometheus_library/index.md)
1. Each metric must be have a label to indicate the environment
1. GitLab must have network connectivity to the Prometheus server

#### Getting started

Installing and configuring Prometheus to monitor applications is fairly straight forward.

1. [Install Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/installation/)
1. Set up one of the [supported monitoring targets](prometheus_library/index.md)
1. Configure the Prometheus server to [collect their metrics](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#scrape_config)

#### Configuration in GitLab

The actual configuration of Prometheus integration within GitLab is very simple.
All you will need is the DNS or IP address of the Prometheus server you'd like
to integrate with.

1. Navigate to the [Integrations page](project_services.md#accessing-the-project-services)
1. Click the **Prometheus** service
1. Provide the base URL of the your server, for example `http://prometheus.example.com/`.
   The **Test Settings** button can be used to confirm connectivity from GitLab
   to the Prometheus server.

![Configure Prometheus Service](img/prometheus_service_configuration.png)

## Monitoring CI/CD Environments

Once configured, GitLab will attempt to retrieve performance metrics for any
environment which has had a successful deployment.

GitLab will automatically scan the Prometheus server for metrics from known servers like Kubernetes and NGINX, and attempt to identify individual environment. The supported metrics and scan process is detailed in our [Prometheus Metrics Library documentation](prometheus_library/index.md).

You can view the performance dashboard for an environment by [clicking on the monitoring button](../../../ci/environments.md#monitoring-environments).

### Adding additional metrics **(PREMIUM)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ee/merge_requests/3799) in [GitLab Premium](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 10.6.

Additional metrics can be monitored by adding them on the Prometheus integration page. Once saved, they will be displayed on the environment performance dashboard.

![Add New Metric](img/prometheus_add_metric.png)

A few fields are required:

- **Name**: Chart title
- **Type**: Type of metric. Metrics of the same type will be shown together.
- **Query**: Valid [PromQL query](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/basics/).
- **Y-axis label**: Y axis title to display on the dashboard.
- **Unit label**: Query units, for example `req / sec`. Shown next to the value.

Multiple metrics can be displayed on the same chart if the fields **Name**, **Type**, and **Y-axis label** match between metrics. For example, a metric with **Name** `Requests Rate`, **Type** `Business`, and **Y-axis label** `rec / sec` would display on the same chart as a second metric with the same values. A **Legend label** is suggested if this feature used.

#### Query Variables

GitLab supports a limited set of [CI variables](../../../ci/variables/README.html) in the Prometheus query. This is particularly useful for identifying a specific environment, for example with `CI_ENVIRONMENT_SLUG`. The supported variables are:

- CI_ENVIRONMENT_SLUG
- KUBE_NAMESPACE

To specify a variable in a query, enclose it in curly braces with a leading percent. For example: `%{ci_environment_slug}`.

### Defining custom dashboards per project

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/59974) in GitLab 12.1.

By default, all projects include a GitLab-defined Prometheus dashboard, which
includes a few key metrics, but you can also define your own custom dashboards.

NOTE: **Note:**
The custom metrics as defined below do not support alerts, unlike
[additional metrics](#adding-additional-metrics-premium).

Dashboards have several components:

- Panel groups, which comprise panels.
- Panels, which support one or more metrics.

To configure a custom dashboard:

1. Create a YAML file with the `.yml` extension under your repository's root
   directory inside `.gitlab/dashboards/`. For example, create
   `.gitlab/dashboards/prom_alerts.yml` with the following contents:

   ```yaml
   dashboard: 'Dashboard Title'
   panel_groups:
     - group: 'Group Title'
       panels:
         - type: area-chart
           title: "Chart Title"
           y_label: "Y-Axis"
           metrics:
             - id: metric_of_ages
               query_range: 'http_requests_total'
               label: "Metric of Ages"
               unit: "count"
   ```

   The above sample dashboard would display a single area chart. Each file should
   define the layout of the dashboard and the Prometheus queries used to populate
   data.

1. Save the file, commit, and push to your repository.
1. Navigate to your project's **Operations > Metrics** and choose the custom
   dashboard from the dropdown.

NOTE: **Note:**
Configuration files nested under subdirectories of `.gitlab/dashboards` are not
supported and will not be available in the UI.

The following tables outline the details of expected properties.

**Dashboard properties:**

| Property | Type | Required | Description |
| ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| `dashboard` | string | yes | Heading for the dashboard. Only one dashboard should be defined per file. |
| `panel_groups` | array | yes | The panel groups which should be on the dashboard. |

**Panel group (`panel_groups`) properties:**

| Property | Type | Required | Description |
| ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| `group` | string | required | Heading for the panel group. |
| `priority` | number | optional, defaults to order in file | Order to appear on the dashboard. Higher number means higher priority, which will be higher on the page. Numbers do not need to be consecutive. |
| `panels` | array | required | The panels which should be in the panel group. |

**Panel (`panels`) properties:**

| Property | Type | Required | Description |
| ------ | ------ | ------ | ------- |
| `type` | enum | no, defaults to `area-chart` | Specifies the chart type to use. |
| `title` | string | yes | Heading for the panel. |
| `y_label` | string | no, but highly encouraged | Y-Axis label for the panel. |
| `weight` | number | no, defaults to order in file | Order to appear within the grouping. Lower number means higher priority, which will be higher on the page. Numbers do not need to be consecutive. |
| `metrics` | array | yes | The metrics which should be displayed in the panel. |

**Metrics (`metrics`) properties:**

| Property | Type | Required | Description |
| ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| `id` | string | no | Used for associating dashboard metrics with database records. Must be unique across dashboard configuration files. Required for [alerting](#setting-up-alerts-for-prometheus-metrics-ultimate) (support not yet enabled, see [relevant issue](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/60319)). |
| `unit` | string | yes | Defines the unit of the query's return data. |
| `label` | string | no, but highly encouraged | Defines the legend-label for the query. Should be unique within the panel's metrics. |
| `query` | string | yes if `query_range` is not defined | Defines the Prometheus query to be used to populate the chart/panel. If defined, the `query` endpoint of the [Prometheus API](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api/) will be utilized. |
| `query_range` | string | yes if `query` is not defined | Defines the Prometheus query to be used to populate the chart/panel. If defined, the `query_range` endpoint of the [Prometheus API](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api/) will be utilized. |

#### Panel types for dashboards

The below panel types are supported in monitoring dashboards.

##### Area

To add an area panel type to a dashboard, look at the following sample dashboard file:

```yaml
dashboard: 'Dashboard Title'
panel_groups:
  - group: 'Group Title'
    panels:
      - type: area-chart
        title: "Chart Title"
        y_label: "Y-Axis"
        metrics:
          - id: 10
            query_range: 'http_requests_total'
            label: "Metric of Ages"
            unit: "count"
```

Note the following properties:

| Property | Type | Required | Description |
| ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| type | string | no | Type of panel to be rendered. Optional for area panel types |
| query_range | yes | required | For area panel types, you must use a [range query](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api/#range-queries) |

![area panel type](img/prometheus_dashboard_area_panel_type.png)

##### Single Stat

To add a single stat panel type to a dashboard, look at the following sample dashboard file:

```yaml
dashboard: 'Dashboard Title'
panel_groups:
  - group: 'Group Title'
    panels:
      - title: "Single Stat"
        type: "single-stat"
        metrics:
        - id: 10
          query: 'max(go_memstats_alloc_bytes{job="prometheus"})'
          unit: MB
          label: "Total"
```

Note the following properties:

| Property | Type | Required | Description |
| ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| type | string | yes | Type of panel to be rendered. For single stat panel types, set to `single-stat` |
| query | string | yes | For single stat panel types, you must use an [instant query](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api/#instant-queries) |

![single stat panel type](img/prometheus_dashboard_single_stat_panel_type.png)

### Setting up alerts for Prometheus metrics **(ULTIMATE)**

#### Managed Prometheus instances

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ee/merge_requests/6590) in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 11.2 for [custom metrics](#adding-additional-metrics-premium), and 11.3 for [library metrics](prometheus_library/metrics.md).

For managed Prometheus instances using auto configuration, alerts for metrics [can be configured](#adding-additional-metrics-premium) directly in the performance dashboard.

To set an alert, click on the alarm icon in the top right corner of the metric you want to create the alert for. A dropdown
will appear, with options to set the threshold and operator. Click **Add** to save and activate the alert.

![Adding an alert](img/prometheus_alert.png)

To remove the alert, click back on the alert icon for the desired metric, and click **Delete**.

#### External Prometheus instances

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ee/issues/9258) in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 11.8.

For manually configured Prometheus servers, a notify endpoint is provided to use with Prometheus webhooks. If you have manual configuration enabled, an **Alerts** section is added to **Settings > Integrations > Prometheus**. This contains the *URL* and *Authorization Key*. The **Reset Key** button will invalidate the key and generate a new one.

![Prometheus service configuration of Alerts](img/prometheus_service_alerts.png)

To send GitLab alert notifications, copy the *URL* and *Authorization Key* into the [`webhook_configs`](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/configuration/#webhook_config) section of your Prometheus Alertmanager configuration:

```yaml
receivers:
  name: gitlab
  webhook_configs:
  - http_config:
      bearer_token: 9e1cbfcd546896a9ea8be557caf13a76
    send_resolved: true
    url: http://192.168.178.31:3001/root/manual_prometheus/prometheus/alerts/notify.json
  ...
```

### Taking action on incidents **(ULTIMATE)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ee/issues/4925) in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 11.11.

Alerts can be used to trigger actions, like open an issue automatically (enabled by default since `12.1`). To configure the actions:

1. Navigate to your project's **Settings > Operations > Incidents**.
1. Enable the option to create issues.
1. Choose the [issue template](../description_templates.md) to create the issue from.
1. Optionally, select whether to send an email notification to the developers of the project.
1. Click **Save changes**.

Once enabled, an issue will be opened automatically when an alert is triggered which contains values extracted from [alert's payload](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/configuration/#webhook_config
):

- Issue author: `GitLab Alert Bot`
- Issue title: Extract from `annotations/title`, `annotations/summary` or `labels/alertname`
- Alert `Summary`: A list of properties
  - `starts_at`: Alert start time via `startsAt`
  - `full_query`: Alert query extracted from `generatorURL`
  - Optional list of attached annotations extracted from `annotations/*`
- Alert [GFM](../../markdown.md): GitLab Flavored Markdown from `annotations/gitlab_incident_markdown`

To further customize the issue, you can add labels, mentions, or any other supported [quick action](../quick_actions.md) in the selected issue template, which will apply to all incidents. To limit quick actions or other information to only specific types of alerts, use the `annotations/gitlab_incident_markdown` field.

Since [version 12.2](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/63373), GitLab will tag each incident issue with the `incident` label automatically. If the label does not yet exist, it will be created automatically as well.

If the metric exceeds the threshold of the alert for over 5 minutes, an email will be sent to all [Maintainers and Owners](../../permissions.md#project-members-permissions) of the project.

## Determining the performance impact of a merge

> [Introduced][ce-10408] in GitLab 9.2.
> GitLab 9.3 added the [numeric comparison](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/27439) of the 30 minute averages.
> Requires [Kubernetes](prometheus_library/kubernetes.md) metrics

Developers can view the performance impact of their changes within the merge
request workflow. When a source branch has been deployed to an environment, a sparkline and numeric comparison of the average memory consumption will appear. On the sparkline, a dot
indicates when the current changes were deployed, with up to 30 minutes of
performance data displayed before and after. The comparison shows the difference between the 30 minute average before and after the deployment. This information is updated after
each commit has been deployed.

Once merged and the target branch has been redeployed, the metrics will switch
to show the new environments this revision has been deployed to.

Performance data will be available for the duration it is persisted on the
Prometheus server.

![Merge Request with Performance Impact](img/merge_request_performance.png)

## Troubleshooting

If the "No data found" screen continues to appear, it could be due to:

- No successful deployments have occurred to this environment.
- Prometheus does not have performance data for this environment, or the metrics
  are not labeled correctly. To test this, connect to the Prometheus server and
  [run a query](prometheus_library/kubernetes.html#metrics-supported), replacing `$CI_ENVIRONMENT_SLUG`
  with the name of your environment.

[autodeploy]: ../../../ci/autodeploy/index.md
[kubernetes]: https://kubernetes.io
[kube]: ./kubernetes.md
[prometheus-k8s-sd]: https://prometheus.io/docs/operating/configuration/#<kubernetes_sd_config>
[prometheus]: https://prometheus.io
[gitlab-prometheus-k8s-monitor]: ../../../administration/monitoring/prometheus/index.md#configuring-prometheus-to-monitor-kubernetes
[prometheus-docker-image]: https://hub.docker.com/r/prom/prometheus/
[prometheus-yml]:samples/prometheus.yml
[gitlab.com-ip-range]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/infrastructure/issues/434
[ci-environment-slug]: ../../../ci/variables/#predefined-environment-variables
[ce-8935]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/merge_requests/8935
[ce-10408]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/merge_requests/10408
[promgldocs]: ../../../administration/monitoring/prometheus/index.md
