doc/monitoring/performance/influxdb_schema.md, before:

# InfluxDB Schema

The following measurements are currently stored in InfluxDB:

- `PROCESS_file_descriptors`
- `PROCESS_gc_statistics`
- `PROCESS_memory_usage`
- `PROCESS_method_calls`
- `PROCESS_object_counts`
- `PROCESS_transactions`
- `PROCESS_views`

Here, `PROCESS` is replaced with either `rails` or `sidekiq` depending on the
process type. In all series, any form of duration is stored in milliseconds.

## PROCESS_file_descriptors

This measurement contains the number of open file descriptors over time. The
value field `value` contains the number of descriptors.

## PROCESS_gc_statistics

This measurement contains Ruby garbage collection statistics such as the amount
of minor/major GC runs (relative to the last sampling interval), the time spent
in garbage collection cycles, and all fields/values returned by `GC.stat`.

## PROCESS_memory_usage

This measurement contains the process' memory usage (in bytes) over time. The
value field `value` contains the number of bytes.

## PROCESS_method_calls

This measurement contains the methods called during a transaction along with
their duration, and a name of the transaction action that invoked the method (if
available). The method call duration is stored in the value field `duration`,
while the method name is stored in the tag `method`. The tag `action` contains
the full name of the transaction action. Both the `method` and `action` fields
are in the following format:

```
ClassName#method_name
```

For example, a method called by the `show` method in the `UsersController` class
would have `action` set to `UsersController#show`.

## PROCESS_object_counts

This measurement is used to store retained Ruby objects (per class) and the
amount of retained objects. The number of objects is stored in the `count` value
field while the class name is stored in the `type` tag.

## PROCESS_transactions

This measurement is used to store basic transaction details such as the time it
took to complete a transaction, how much time was spent in SQL queries, etc. The
following value fields are available:

| Value | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| `duration`  | The total duration of the transaction |
| `allocated_memory` | The amount of bytes allocated while the transaction was running. This value is only reliable when using single-threaded application servers |
| `method_duration` | The total time spent in method calls |
| `sql_duration` | The total time spent in SQL queries |
| `view_duration` | The total time spent in views |

## PROCESS_views

This measurement is used to store view rendering timings for a transaction. The
following value fields are available:

| Value | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| `duration` | The rendering time of the view |
| `view` | The path of the view, relative to the application's root directory |

The `action` tag contains the action name of the transaction that rendered the
view.

---

Read more on:

- [Introduction to GitLab Performance Monitoring](introduction.md)
- [GitLab Configuration](gitlab_configuration.md)
- [InfluxDB Configuration](influxdb_configuration.md)
- [Grafana Install/Configuration](grafana_configuration.md)

Commit message:

Tracking of custom events
GitLab Performance Monitoring is now able to track custom events not
directly related to application performance. These events include the
number of tags pushed, repositories created, builds registered, etc.

The use of these events is to get a better overview of how a GitLab
instance is used and how that may affect performance. For example, a
large number of Git pushes may have a negative impact on the underlying
storage engine.

Events are stored in the "events" measurement and are not prefixed with
"rails_" or "sidekiq_", this makes it easier to query events with the
same name triggered from different parts of the application. All events
being stored in the same measurement also makes it easier to downsample
data.

Currently the following events are tracked:

* Creating repositories
* Removing repositories
* Changing the default branch of a repository
* Pushing a new tag
* Removing an existing tag
* Pushing a commit (along with the branch being pushed to)
* Pushing a new branch
* Removing an existing branch
* Importing a repository (along with the URL we're importing)
* Forking a repository (along with the source/target path)
* CI builds registered (and when no build could be found)
* CI builds being updated
* Rails and Sidekiq exceptions

Fixes gitlab-org/gitlab-ce#13720

doc/monitoring/performance/influxdb_schema.md, after:

# InfluxDB Schema

The following measurements are currently stored in InfluxDB:

- `PROCESS_file_descriptors`
- `PROCESS_gc_statistics`
- `PROCESS_memory_usage`
- `PROCESS_method_calls`
- `PROCESS_object_counts`
- `PROCESS_transactions`
- `PROCESS_views`
- `events`

Here, `PROCESS` is replaced with either `rails` or `sidekiq` depending on the
process type. In all series, any form of duration is stored in milliseconds.

## PROCESS_file_descriptors

This measurement contains the number of open file descriptors over time. The
value field `value` contains the number of descriptors.

## PROCESS_gc_statistics

This measurement contains Ruby garbage collection statistics such as the amount
of minor/major GC runs (relative to the last sampling interval), the time spent
in garbage collection cycles, and all fields/values returned by `GC.stat`.

## PROCESS_memory_usage

This measurement contains the process' memory usage (in bytes) over time. The
value field `value` contains the number of bytes.

## PROCESS_method_calls

This measurement contains the methods called during a transaction along with
their duration, and a name of the transaction action that invoked the method (if
available). The method call duration is stored in the value field `duration`,
while the method name is stored in the tag `method`. The tag `action` contains
the full name of the transaction action. Both the `method` and `action` fields
are in the following format:

```
ClassName#method_name
```

For example, a method called by the `show` method in the `UsersController` class
would have `action` set to `UsersController#show`.

## PROCESS_object_counts

This measurement is used to store retained Ruby objects (per class) and the
amount of retained objects. The number of objects is stored in the `count` value
field while the class name is stored in the `type` tag.

## PROCESS_transactions

This measurement is used to store basic transaction details such as the time it
took to complete a transaction, how much time was spent in SQL queries, etc. The
following value fields are available:

| Value | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| `duration`  | The total duration of the transaction |
| `allocated_memory` | The amount of bytes allocated while the transaction was running. This value is only reliable when using single-threaded application servers |
| `method_duration` | The total time spent in method calls |
| `sql_duration` | The total time spent in SQL queries |
| `view_duration` | The total time spent in views |

## PROCESS_views

This measurement is used to store view rendering timings for a transaction. The
following value fields are available:

| Value | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| `duration` | The rendering time of the view |
| `view` | The path of the view, relative to the application's root directory |

The `action` tag contains the action name of the transaction that rendered the
view.

## events

This measurement is used to store generic events such as the number of Git
pushes, Emails sent, etc. Each point in this measurement has a single value
field called `count`. The value of this field is simply set to `1`. Each point
also has at least one tag: `event`. This tag's value is set to the event name.
Depending on the event type additional tags may be available as well.

---

Read more on:

- [Introduction to GitLab Performance Monitoring](introduction.md)
- [GitLab Configuration](gitlab_configuration.md)
- [InfluxDB Configuration](influxdb_configuration.md)
- [Grafana Install/Configuration](grafana_configuration.md)
