doc/update/11.1-to-11.2.md, before:

---
comments: false
---

# From 11.1 to 11.2

Make sure you view this update guide from the branch (version) of GitLab you would
like to install (e.g., `11-2-stable`. You can select the branch in the version
dropdown at the top left corner of GitLab (below the menu bar).

If the highest number stable branch is unclear please check the
[GitLab Blog](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/archives.html) for installation
guide links by version.

### 1. Stop server

```bash
sudo service gitlab stop
```

### 2. Backup

NOTE: If you installed GitLab from source, make sure `rsync` is installed.

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:backup:create RAILS_ENV=production
```

### 3. Update Ruby

NOTE: GitLab 11.0 and higher only support Ruby 2.4.x and dropped support for Ruby 2.3.x. Be
sure to upgrade your interpreter if necessary.

You can check which version you are running with `ruby -v`.

Download Ruby and compile it:

```bash
mkdir /tmp/ruby && cd /tmp/ruby
curl --remote-name --progress https://cache.ruby-lang.org/pub/ruby/2.4/ruby-2.4.4.tar.gz
echo 'ec82b0d53bd0adad9b19e6b45e44d54e9ec3f10c  ruby-2.4.4.tar.gz' | shasum -c - && tar xzf ruby-2.4.4.tar.gz
cd ruby-2.4.4

./configure --disable-install-rdoc
make
sudo make install
```

Install Bundler:

```bash
sudo gem install bundler --no-ri --no-rdoc
```

### 4. Update Node

GitLab utilizes [webpack](http://webpack.js.org) to compile frontend assets.
This requires a minimum version of node v6.0.0.

You can check which version you are running with `node -v`. If you are running
a version older than `v6.0.0` you will need to update to a newer version. You
can find instructions to install from community maintained packages or compile
from source at the nodejs.org website.

<https://nodejs.org/en/download/>

GitLab also requires the use of yarn `>= v1.2.0` to manage JavaScript
dependencies.

```bash
curl --silent --show-error https://dl.yarnpkg.com/debian/pubkey.gpg | sudo apt-key add -
echo "deb https://dl.yarnpkg.com/debian/ stable main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/yarn.list
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install yarn
```

More information can be found on the [yarn website](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install).

### 5. Update Go

NOTE: GitLab 11.0 and higher only supports Go 1.9.x and newer, and dropped support for Go
1.5.x through 1.8.x. Be sure to upgrade your installation if necessary.

You can check which version you are running with `go version`.

Download and install Go:

```bash
# Remove former Go installation folder
sudo rm -rf /usr/local/go

curl --remote-name --progress https://dl.google.com/go/go1.10.3.linux-amd64.tar.gz
echo 'fa1b0e45d3b647c252f51f5e1204aba049cde4af177ef9f2181f43004f901035  go1.10.3.linux-amd64.tar.gz' | shasum -a256 -c - && \
  sudo tar -C /usr/local -xzf go1.10.3.linux-amd64.tar.gz
sudo ln -sf /usr/local/go/bin/{go,godoc,gofmt} /usr/local/bin/
rm go1.10.3.linux-amd64.tar.gz
```

### 6. Get latest code

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

sudo -u git -H git fetch --all --prune
sudo -u git -H git checkout -- db/schema.rb # local changes will be restored automatically
sudo -u git -H git checkout -- locale
```

For GitLab Community Edition:

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

sudo -u git -H git checkout 11-2-stable
```

OR

For GitLab Enterprise Edition:

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

sudo -u git -H git checkout 11-2-stable-ee
```

### 7. Update gitlab-shell

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab-shell

sudo -u git -H git fetch --all --tags --prune
sudo -u git -H git checkout v$(</home/git/gitlab/GITLAB_SHELL_VERSION)
sudo -u git -H bin/compile
```

### 8. Update gitlab-workhorse

Install and compile gitlab-workhorse. GitLab-Workhorse uses
[GNU Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/).
If you are not using Linux you may have to run `gmake` instead of
`make` below.

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab-workhorse

sudo -u git -H git fetch --all --tags --prune
sudo -u git -H git checkout v$(</home/git/gitlab/GITLAB_WORKHORSE_VERSION)
sudo -u git -H make
```

### 9. Update Gitaly

#### New Gitaly configuration options required

In order to function Gitaly needs some additional configuration information. Below we assume you installed Gitaly in `/home/git/gitaly` and GitLab Shell in `/home/git/gitlab-shell`.

```shell
echo '
[gitaly-ruby]
dir = "/home/git/gitaly/ruby"

[gitlab-shell]
dir = "/home/git/gitlab-shell"
' | sudo -u git tee -a /home/git/gitaly/config.toml
```

#### Check Gitaly configuration

Due to a bug in the `rake gitlab:gitaly:install` script your Gitaly
configuration file may contain syntax errors. The block name
`[[storages]]`, which may occur more than once in your `config.toml`
file, should be `[[storage]]` instead.

```shell
sudo -u git -H sed -i.pre-10.1 's/\[\[storages\]\]/[[storage]]/' /home/git/gitaly/config.toml
```

#### Compile Gitaly

```shell
cd /home/git/gitaly
sudo -u git -H git fetch --all --tags --prune
sudo -u git -H git checkout v$(</home/git/gitlab/GITALY_SERVER_VERSION)
sudo -u git -H make
```

### 10. Update gitlab-pages

#### Only needed if you use GitLab Pages.

Install and compile gitlab-pages. GitLab-Pages uses
[GNU Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/).
If you are not using Linux you may have to run `gmake` instead of
`make` below.

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab-pages

sudo -u git -H git fetch --all --tags --prune
sudo -u git -H git checkout v$(</home/git/gitlab/GITLAB_PAGES_VERSION)
sudo -u git -H make
```

### 11. Update MySQL permissions

If you are using MySQL you need to grant the GitLab user the necessary
permissions on the database:

```bash
mysql -u root -p -e "GRANT TRIGGER ON \`gitlabhq_production\`.* TO 'git'@'localhost';"
```

If you use MySQL with replication, or just have MySQL configured with binary logging,
you will need to also run the following on all of your MySQL servers:

```bash
mysql -u root -p -e "SET GLOBAL log_bin_trust_function_creators = 1;"
```

You can make this setting permanent by adding it to your `my.cnf`:

```
log_bin_trust_function_creators=1
```

### 12. Update configuration files

#### New configuration options for `gitlab.yml`

There might be configuration options available for [`gitlab.yml`][yaml]. View them with the command below and apply them manually to your current `gitlab.yml`:

```sh
cd /home/git/gitlab

git diff origin/11-1-stable:config/gitlab.yml.example origin/11-2-stable:config/gitlab.yml.example
```

#### Nginx configuration

Ensure you're still up-to-date with the latest NGINX configuration changes:

```sh
cd /home/git/gitlab

# For HTTPS configurations
git diff origin/11-1-stable:lib/support/nginx/gitlab-ssl origin/11-2-stable:lib/support/nginx/gitlab-ssl

# For HTTP configurations
git diff origin/11-1-stable:lib/support/nginx/gitlab origin/11-2-stable:lib/support/nginx/gitlab
```

If you are using Strict-Transport-Security in your installation to continue using it you must enable it in your Nginx
configuration as GitLab application no longer handles setting it.

If you are using Apache instead of NGINX please see the updated [Apache templates].
Also note that because Apache does not support upstreams behind Unix sockets you
will need to let gitlab-workhorse listen on a TCP port. You can do this
via [/etc/default/gitlab].

[Apache templates]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-recipes/tree/master/web-server/apache
[/etc/default/gitlab]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/11-2-stable/lib/support/init.d/gitlab.default.example#L38

#### SMTP configuration

If you're installing from source and use SMTP to deliver mail, you will need to add the following line
to config/initializers/smtp_settings.rb:

```ruby
ActionMailer::Base.delivery_method = :smtp
```

See [smtp_settings.rb.sample] as an example.

[smtp_settings.rb.sample]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/11-2-stable/config/initializers/smtp_settings.rb.sample#L13

#### Init script

There might be new configuration options available for [`gitlab.default.example`][gl-example]. View them with the command below and apply them manually to your current `/etc/default/gitlab`:

```sh
cd /home/git/gitlab

git diff origin/11-1-stable:lib/support/init.d/gitlab.default.example origin/11-2-stable:lib/support/init.d/gitlab.default.example
```

Ensure you're still up-to-date with the latest init script changes:

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

sudo cp lib/support/init.d/gitlab /etc/init.d/gitlab
```

For Ubuntu 16.04.1 LTS:

```bash
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
```

### 13. Install libs, migrations, etc.

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

# MySQL installations (note: the line below states '--without postgres')
sudo -u git -H bundle install --without postgres development test --deployment

# PostgreSQL installations (note: the line below states '--without mysql')
sudo -u git -H bundle install --without mysql development test --deployment

# Optional: clean up old gems
sudo -u git -H bundle clean

# Run database migrations
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake db:migrate RAILS_ENV=production

# Compile GetText PO files

sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gettext:compile RAILS_ENV=production

# Update node dependencies and recompile assets
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake yarn:install gitlab:assets:clean gitlab:assets:compile RAILS_ENV=production NODE_ENV=production

# Clean up cache
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake cache:clear RAILS_ENV=production
```

**MySQL installations**: Run through the `MySQL strings limits` and `Tables and data conversion to utf8mb4` [tasks](../install/database_mysql.md).

### 14. Start application

```bash
sudo service gitlab start
sudo service nginx restart
```

### 15. Check application status

Check if GitLab and its environment are configured correctly:

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:env:info RAILS_ENV=production
```

To make sure you didn't miss anything run a more thorough check:

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:check RAILS_ENV=production
```

If all items are green, then congratulations, the upgrade is complete!

## Things went south? Revert to previous version (11.1)

### 1. Revert the code to the previous version

Follow the [upgrade guide from 11.0 to 11.1](11.0-to-11.1.md), except for the
database migration (the backup is already migrated to the previous version).

### 2. Restore from the backup

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:backup:restore RAILS_ENV=production
```

If you have more than one backup `*.tar` file(s) please add `BACKUP=timestamp_of_backup` to the command above.

[yaml]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/11-2-stable/config/gitlab.yml.example
[gl-example]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/11-2-stable/lib/support/init.d/gitlab.default.example

Commit message:

Override elasticsearch setting for STI note models

doc/update/11.1-to-11.2.md, after:

---
comments: false
---

# From 11.1 to 11.2

Make sure you view this update guide from the branch (version) of GitLab you would
like to install (e.g., `11-2-stable`. You can select the branch in the version
dropdown at the top left corner of GitLab (below the menu bar).

If the highest number stable branch is unclear please check the
[GitLab Blog](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/archives.html) for installation
guide links by version.

### 1. Stop server

```bash
sudo service gitlab stop
```

### 2. Backup

NOTE: If you installed GitLab from source, make sure `rsync` is installed.

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:backup:create RAILS_ENV=production
```

### 3. Update Ruby

NOTE: GitLab 11.0 and higher only support Ruby 2.4.x and dropped support for Ruby 2.3.x. Be
sure to upgrade your interpreter if necessary.

You can check which version you are running with `ruby -v`.

Download Ruby and compile it:

```bash
mkdir /tmp/ruby && cd /tmp/ruby
curl --remote-name --progress https://cache.ruby-lang.org/pub/ruby/2.4/ruby-2.4.4.tar.gz
echo 'ec82b0d53bd0adad9b19e6b45e44d54e9ec3f10c  ruby-2.4.4.tar.gz' | shasum -c - && tar xzf ruby-2.4.4.tar.gz
cd ruby-2.4.4

./configure --disable-install-rdoc
make
sudo make install
```

Install Bundler:

```bash
sudo gem install bundler --no-ri --no-rdoc
```

### 4. Update Node

GitLab utilizes [webpack](http://webpack.js.org) to compile frontend assets.
This requires a minimum version of node v6.0.0.

You can check which version you are running with `node -v`. If you are running
a version older than `v6.0.0` you will need to update to a newer version. You
can find instructions to install from community maintained packages or compile
from source at the nodejs.org website.

<https://nodejs.org/en/download/>

GitLab also requires the use of yarn `>= v1.2.0` to manage JavaScript
dependencies.

```bash
curl --silent --show-error https://dl.yarnpkg.com/debian/pubkey.gpg | sudo apt-key add -
echo "deb https://dl.yarnpkg.com/debian/ stable main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/yarn.list
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install yarn
```

More information can be found on the [yarn website](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install).

### 5. Update Go

NOTE: GitLab 11.0 and higher only supports Go 1.9.x and newer, and dropped support for Go
1.5.x through 1.8.x. Be sure to upgrade your installation if necessary.

You can check which version you are running with `go version`.

Download and install Go:

```bash
# Remove former Go installation folder
sudo rm -rf /usr/local/go

curl --remote-name --progress https://dl.google.com/go/go1.10.3.linux-amd64.tar.gz
echo 'fa1b0e45d3b647c252f51f5e1204aba049cde4af177ef9f2181f43004f901035  go1.10.3.linux-amd64.tar.gz' | shasum -a256 -c - && \
  sudo tar -C /usr/local -xzf go1.10.3.linux-amd64.tar.gz
sudo ln -sf /usr/local/go/bin/{go,godoc,gofmt} /usr/local/bin/
rm go1.10.3.linux-amd64.tar.gz
```

### 6. Get latest code

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

sudo -u git -H git fetch --all --prune
sudo -u git -H git checkout -- db/schema.rb # local changes will be restored automatically
sudo -u git -H git checkout -- locale
```

For GitLab Community Edition:

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

sudo -u git -H git checkout 11-2-stable
```

OR

For GitLab Enterprise Edition:

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

sudo -u git -H git checkout 11-2-stable-ee
```

### 7. Update gitlab-shell

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab-shell

sudo -u git -H git fetch --all --tags --prune
sudo -u git -H git checkout v$(</home/git/gitlab/GITLAB_SHELL_VERSION)
sudo -u git -H bin/compile
```

### 8. Update gitlab-workhorse

Install and compile gitlab-workhorse. GitLab-Workhorse uses
[GNU Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/).
If you are not using Linux you may have to run `gmake` instead of
`make` below.

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab-workhorse

sudo -u git -H git fetch --all --tags --prune
sudo -u git -H git checkout v$(</home/git/gitlab/GITLAB_WORKHORSE_VERSION)
sudo -u git -H make
```

### 9. Update Gitaly

#### New Gitaly configuration options required

In order to function Gitaly needs some additional configuration information. Below we assume you installed Gitaly in `/home/git/gitaly` and GitLab Shell in `/home/git/gitlab-shell`.

```shell
echo '
[gitaly-ruby]
dir = "/home/git/gitaly/ruby"

[gitlab-shell]
dir = "/home/git/gitlab-shell"
' | sudo -u git tee -a /home/git/gitaly/config.toml
```

#### Check Gitaly configuration

Due to a bug in the `rake gitlab:gitaly:install` script your Gitaly
configuration file may contain syntax errors. The block name
`[[storages]]`, which may occur more than once in your `config.toml`
file, should be `[[storage]]` instead.

```shell
sudo -u git -H sed -i.pre-10.1 's/\[\[storages\]\]/[[storage]]/' /home/git/gitaly/config.toml
```

#### Compile Gitaly

```shell
cd /home/git/gitaly
sudo -u git -H git fetch --all --tags --prune
sudo -u git -H git checkout v$(</home/git/gitlab/GITALY_SERVER_VERSION)
sudo -u git -H make
```

### 10. Update gitlab-pages

#### Only needed if you use GitLab Pages.

Install and compile gitlab-pages. GitLab-Pages uses
[GNU Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/).
If you are not using Linux you may have to run `gmake` instead of
`make` below.

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab-pages

sudo -u git -H git fetch --all --tags --prune
sudo -u git -H git checkout v$(</home/git/gitlab/GITLAB_PAGES_VERSION)
sudo -u git -H make
```

### 11. Update MySQL permissions

If you are using MySQL you need to grant the GitLab user the necessary
permissions on the database:

```bash
mysql -u root -p -e "GRANT TRIGGER ON \`gitlabhq_production\`.* TO 'git'@'localhost';"
```

If you use MySQL with replication, or just have MySQL configured with binary logging,
you will need to also run the following on all of your MySQL servers:

```bash
mysql -u root -p -e "SET GLOBAL log_bin_trust_function_creators = 1;"
```

You can make this setting permanent by adding it to your `my.cnf`:

```
log_bin_trust_function_creators=1
```

### 12. Update configuration files

#### New configuration options for `gitlab.yml`

There might be configuration options available for [`gitlab.yml`][yaml]. View them with the command below and apply them manually to your current `gitlab.yml`:

```sh
cd /home/git/gitlab

git diff origin/11-1-stable:config/gitlab.yml.example origin/11-2-stable:config/gitlab.yml.example
```

#### Nginx configuration

Ensure you're still up-to-date with the latest NGINX configuration changes:

```sh
cd /home/git/gitlab

# For HTTPS configurations
git diff origin/11-1-stable:lib/support/nginx/gitlab-ssl origin/11-2-stable:lib/support/nginx/gitlab-ssl

# For HTTP configurations
git diff origin/11-1-stable:lib/support/nginx/gitlab origin/11-2-stable:lib/support/nginx/gitlab
```

If you are using Strict-Transport-Security in your installation to continue using it you must enable it in your Nginx
configuration as GitLab application no longer handles setting it.

If you are using Apache instead of NGINX please see the updated [Apache templates].
Also note that because Apache does not support upstreams behind Unix sockets you
will need to let gitlab-workhorse listen on a TCP port. You can do this
via [/etc/default/gitlab].

[Apache templates]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-recipes/tree/master/web-server/apache
[/etc/default/gitlab]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/11-2-stable/lib/support/init.d/gitlab.default.example#L38

#### SMTP configuration

If you're installing from source and use SMTP to deliver mail, you will need to add the following line
to config/initializers/smtp_settings.rb:

```ruby
ActionMailer::Base.delivery_method = :smtp
```

See [smtp_settings.rb.sample] as an example.

[smtp_settings.rb.sample]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/11-2-stable/config/initializers/smtp_settings.rb.sample#L13

#### Init script

There might be new configuration options available for [`gitlab.default.example`][gl-example]. View them with the command below and apply them manually to your current `/etc/default/gitlab`:

```sh
cd /home/git/gitlab

git diff origin/11-1-stable:lib/support/init.d/gitlab.default.example origin/11-2-stable:lib/support/init.d/gitlab.default.example
```

Ensure you're still up-to-date with the latest init script changes:

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

sudo cp lib/support/init.d/gitlab /etc/init.d/gitlab
```

For Ubuntu 16.04.1 LTS:

```bash
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
```

### 13. Install libs, migrations, etc.

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

# MySQL installations (note: the line below states '--without postgres')
sudo -u git -H bundle install --without postgres development test --deployment

# PostgreSQL installations (note: the line below states '--without mysql')
sudo -u git -H bundle install --without mysql development test --deployment

# Optional: clean up old gems
sudo -u git -H bundle clean

# Run database migrations
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake db:migrate RAILS_ENV=production

# Compile GetText PO files

sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gettext:compile RAILS_ENV=production

# Update node dependencies and recompile assets
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake yarn:install gitlab:assets:clean gitlab:assets:compile RAILS_ENV=production NODE_ENV=production

# Clean up cache
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake cache:clear RAILS_ENV=production
```

**MySQL installations**: Run through the `MySQL strings limits` and `Tables and data conversion to utf8mb4` [tasks](../install/database_mysql.md).

### 14. Start application

```bash
sudo service gitlab start
sudo service nginx restart
```

### 15. Check application status

Check if GitLab and its environment are configured correctly:

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:env:info RAILS_ENV=production
```

To make sure you didn't miss anything run a more thorough check:

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:check RAILS_ENV=production
```

If all items are green, then congratulations, the upgrade is complete!

### 16. Elasticsearch index update (if you currently use Elasticsearch)

In 11.2 release we fixed a bug that caused some types of notes to not be indexed. Please re-create your index by using one of two ways listed below:

1. Re-create the index. The following command is acceptable for not very big GitLab instances (storage size no more than few gigabytes).

    ```
    # Omnibus installations
    sudo gitlab-rake gitlab:elastic:index

    # Installations from source
    bundle exec rake gitlab:elastic:index
    ```

1. For very big GitLab instances we recommend following [Add GitLab's data to the Elasticsearch index](../integration/elasticsearch.md#indexing-large-instances).


## Things went south? Revert to previous version (11.1)

### 1. Revert the code to the previous version

Follow the [upgrade guide from 11.0 to 11.1](11.0-to-11.1.md), except for the
database migration (the backup is already migrated to the previous version).

### 2. Restore from the backup

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:backup:restore RAILS_ENV=production
```

If you have more than one backup `*.tar` file(s) please add `BACKUP=timestamp_of_backup` to the command above.

[yaml]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/11-2-stable/config/gitlab.yml.example
[gl-example]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/11-2-stable/lib/support/init.d/gitlab.default.example
