doc/update/8.11-to-8.12.md, before:

# From 8.11 to 8.12

Make sure you view this update guide from the tag (version) of GitLab you would
like to install. In most cases this should be the highest numbered production
tag (without rc in it). You can select the tag in the version dropdown at the
top left corner of GitLab (below the menu bar).

If the highest number stable branch is unclear please check the
[GitLab Blog](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/archives.html) for installation
guide links by version.

### 1. Stop server

    sudo service gitlab stop

### 2. Backup

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:backup:create RAILS_ENV=production
```

### 3. Update Ruby

If you are you running Ruby 2.1.x, you do not _need_ to upgrade Ruby yet, but you should note that support for 2.1.x is deprecated and we will require 2.3.x in 8.13. It's strongly recommended that you upgrade as soon as possible.

You can check which version you are running with `ruby -v`.

Download and compile Ruby:

```bash
mkdir /tmp/ruby && cd /tmp/ruby
curl --remote-name --progress https://cache.ruby-lang.org/pub/ruby/2.3/ruby-2.3.1.tar.gz
echo 'c39b4001f7acb4e334cb60a0f4df72d434bef711  ruby-2.3.1.tar.gz' | shasum --check - && tar xzf ruby-2.3.1.tar.gz
cd ruby-2.3.1
./configure --disable-install-rdoc
make
sudo make install
```

Install Bundler:

```bash
sudo gem install bundler --no-ri --no-rdoc
```

### 4. Get latest code

```bash
sudo -u git -H git fetch --all
sudo -u git -H git checkout -- db/schema.rb # local changes will be restored automatically
```

For GitLab Community Edition:

```bash
sudo -u git -H git checkout 8-12-stable
```

OR

For GitLab Enterprise Edition:

```bash
sudo -u git -H git checkout 8-12-stable-ee
```

### 5. Update gitlab-shell

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab-shell
sudo -u git -H git fetch --all --tags
sudo -u git -H git checkout v3.6.0
```

### 6. Update gitlab-workhorse

Install and compile gitlab-workhorse. This requires
[Go 1.5](https://golang.org/dl) which should already be on your system from
GitLab 8.1.

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab-workhorse
sudo -u git -H git fetch --all
sudo -u git -H git checkout v0.8.2
sudo -u git -H make
```

### 7. Install libs, migrations, etc.

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

# MySQL installations (note: the line below states '--without postgres')
sudo -u git -H bundle install --without postgres development test --deployment

# PostgreSQL installations (note: the line below states '--without mysql')
sudo -u git -H bundle install --without mysql development test --deployment

# Optional: clean up old gems
sudo -u git -H bundle clean

# Run database migrations
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake db:migrate RAILS_ENV=production

# Clean up assets and cache
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake assets:clean assets:precompile cache:clear RAILS_ENV=production
```

### 8. Update configuration files

#### New configuration options for `gitlab.yml`

There are new configuration options available for [`gitlab.yml`](config/gitlab.yml.example). View them with the command below and apply them manually to your current `gitlab.yml`:

```sh
git diff origin/8-11-stable:config/gitlab.yml.example origin/8-12-stable:config/gitlab.yml.example
```

#### Git configuration

Configure Git to generate packfile bitmaps (introduced in Git 2.0) on
the GitLab server during `git gc`.

```sh
sudo -u git -H git config --global repack.writeBitmaps true
```

#### Nginx configuration

Ensure you're still up-to-date with the latest NGINX configuration changes:

```sh
# For HTTPS configurations
git diff origin/8-11-stable:lib/support/nginx/gitlab-ssl origin/8-12-stable:lib/support/nginx/gitlab-ssl

# For HTTP configurations
git diff origin/8-11-stable:lib/support/nginx/gitlab origin/8-12-stable:lib/support/nginx/gitlab
```

If you are using Apache instead of NGINX please see the updated [Apache templates].
Also note that because Apache does not support upstreams behind Unix sockets you
will need to let gitlab-workhorse listen on a TCP port. You can do this
via [/etc/default/gitlab].

[Apache templates]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-recipes/tree/master/web-server/apache
[/etc/default/gitlab]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/8-12-stable/lib/support/init.d/gitlab.default.example#L38

#### SMTP configuration

If you're installing from source and use SMTP to deliver mail, you will need to add the following line
to config/initializers/smtp_settings.rb:

```ruby
ActionMailer::Base.delivery_method = :smtp
```

See [smtp_settings.rb.sample] as an example.

[smtp_settings.rb.sample]:  https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/8-12-stable/config/initializers/smtp_settings.rb.sample#L13?

#### Init script

Ensure you're still up-to-date with the latest init script changes:

    sudo cp lib/support/init.d/gitlab /etc/init.d/gitlab

### 9. Start application

    sudo service gitlab start
    sudo service nginx restart

### 10. Check application status

Check if GitLab and its environment are configured correctly:

    sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:env:info RAILS_ENV=production

To make sure you didn't miss anything run a more thorough check:

    sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:check RAILS_ENV=production

If all items are green, then congratulations, the upgrade is complete!

## Things went south? Revert to previous version (8.11)

### 1. Revert the code to the previous version

Follow the [upgrade guide from 8.10 to 8.11](8.10-to-8.11.md), except for the
database migration (the backup is already migrated to the previous version).

### 2. Restore from the backup

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:backup:restore RAILS_ENV=production
```

If you have more than one backup `*.tar` file(s) please add `BACKUP=timestamp_of_backup` to the command above.

Commit message:

Update the "Update Ruby" part since we still support Ruby 2.1 for now
Signed-off-by: Rémy Coutable <remy@rymai.me>

doc/update/8.11-to-8.12.md, after:

# From 8.11 to 8.12

Make sure you view this update guide from the tag (version) of GitLab you would
like to install. In most cases this should be the highest numbered production
tag (without rc in it). You can select the tag in the version dropdown at the
top left corner of GitLab (below the menu bar).

If the highest number stable branch is unclear please check the
[GitLab Blog](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/archives.html) for installation
guide links by version.

### 1. Stop server

    sudo service gitlab stop

### 2. Backup

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:backup:create RAILS_ENV=production
```

### 3. Update Ruby

We will continue supporting Ruby < 2.3 for the time being but we recommend you
upgrade to Ruby 2.3 if you're running a source installation, as this is the same
version that ships with our Omnibus package.

You can check which version you are running with `ruby -v`.

Download and compile Ruby:

```bash
mkdir /tmp/ruby && cd /tmp/ruby
curl --remote-name --progress https://cache.ruby-lang.org/pub/ruby/2.3/ruby-2.3.1.tar.gz
echo 'c39b4001f7acb4e334cb60a0f4df72d434bef711  ruby-2.3.1.tar.gz' | shasum --check - && tar xzf ruby-2.3.1.tar.gz
cd ruby-2.3.1
./configure --disable-install-rdoc
make
sudo make install
```

Install Bundler:

```bash
sudo gem install bundler --no-ri --no-rdoc
```

### 4. Get latest code

```bash
sudo -u git -H git fetch --all
sudo -u git -H git checkout -- db/schema.rb # local changes will be restored automatically
```

For GitLab Community Edition:

```bash
sudo -u git -H git checkout 8-12-stable
```

OR

For GitLab Enterprise Edition:

```bash
sudo -u git -H git checkout 8-12-stable-ee
```

### 5. Update gitlab-shell

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab-shell
sudo -u git -H git fetch --all --tags
sudo -u git -H git checkout v3.6.0
```

### 6. Update gitlab-workhorse

Install and compile gitlab-workhorse. This requires
[Go 1.5](https://golang.org/dl) which should already be on your system from
GitLab 8.1.

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab-workhorse
sudo -u git -H git fetch --all
sudo -u git -H git checkout v0.8.2
sudo -u git -H make
```

### 7. Install libs, migrations, etc.

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

# MySQL installations (note: the line below states '--without postgres')
sudo -u git -H bundle install --without postgres development test --deployment

# PostgreSQL installations (note: the line below states '--without mysql')
sudo -u git -H bundle install --without mysql development test --deployment

# Optional: clean up old gems
sudo -u git -H bundle clean

# Run database migrations
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake db:migrate RAILS_ENV=production

# Clean up assets and cache
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake assets:clean assets:precompile cache:clear RAILS_ENV=production
```

### 8. Update configuration files

#### New configuration options for `gitlab.yml`

There are new configuration options available for [`gitlab.yml`](config/gitlab.yml.example). View them with the command below and apply them manually to your current `gitlab.yml`:

```sh
git diff origin/8-11-stable:config/gitlab.yml.example origin/8-12-stable:config/gitlab.yml.example
```

#### Git configuration

Configure Git to generate packfile bitmaps (introduced in Git 2.0) on
the GitLab server during `git gc`.

```sh
sudo -u git -H git config --global repack.writeBitmaps true
```

#### Nginx configuration

Ensure you're still up-to-date with the latest NGINX configuration changes:

```sh
# For HTTPS configurations
git diff origin/8-11-stable:lib/support/nginx/gitlab-ssl origin/8-12-stable:lib/support/nginx/gitlab-ssl

# For HTTP configurations
git diff origin/8-11-stable:lib/support/nginx/gitlab origin/8-12-stable:lib/support/nginx/gitlab
```

If you are using Apache instead of NGINX please see the updated [Apache templates].
Also note that because Apache does not support upstreams behind Unix sockets you
will need to let gitlab-workhorse listen on a TCP port. You can do this
via [/etc/default/gitlab].

[Apache templates]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-recipes/tree/master/web-server/apache
[/etc/default/gitlab]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/8-12-stable/lib/support/init.d/gitlab.default.example#L38

#### SMTP configuration

If you're installing from source and use SMTP to deliver mail, you will need to add the following line
to config/initializers/smtp_settings.rb:

```ruby
ActionMailer::Base.delivery_method = :smtp
```

See [smtp_settings.rb.sample] as an example.

[smtp_settings.rb.sample]:  https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/8-12-stable/config/initializers/smtp_settings.rb.sample#L13?

#### Init script

Ensure you're still up-to-date with the latest init script changes:

    sudo cp lib/support/init.d/gitlab /etc/init.d/gitlab

### 9. Start application

    sudo service gitlab start
    sudo service nginx restart

### 10. Check application status

Check if GitLab and its environment are configured correctly:

    sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:env:info RAILS_ENV=production

To make sure you didn't miss anything run a more thorough check:

    sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:check RAILS_ENV=production

If all items are green, then congratulations, the upgrade is complete!

## Things went south? Revert to previous version (8.11)

### 1. Revert the code to the previous version

Follow the [upgrade guide from 8.10 to 8.11](8.10-to-8.11.md), except for the
database migration (the backup is already migrated to the previous version).

### 2. Restore from the backup

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:backup:restore RAILS_ENV=production
```

If you have more than one backup `*.tar` file(s) please add `BACKUP=timestamp_of_backup` to the command above.
