---
comments: false
---

# From 8.2 to 8.3

Make sure you view this update guide from the tag (version) of GitLab you would
like to install. In most cases this should be the highest numbered production
tag (without rc in it). You can select the tag in the version dropdown at the
top left corner of GitLab (below the menu bar).

If the highest number stable branch is unclear please check the
[GitLab Blog](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/archives.html) for installation
guide links by version.

**NOTE:** GitLab 8.0 introduced several significant changes related to
installation and configuration which *are not duplicated here*. Be sure you're
already running a working version of at least 8.0 before proceeding with this
guide.

### 0. Double-check your Git version

**This notice applies only to /usr/local/bin/git**

If you compiled Git from source on your GitLab server then please double-check
that you are using a version that protects against CVE-2014-9390. For six
months after this vulnerability became known the GitLab installation guide
still contained instructions that would install the outdated, 'vulnerable' Git
version 2.1.2.

Run the following command to get your current Git version:

```sh
/usr/local/bin/git --version
```

If you see 'No such file or directory' then you did not install Git according
to the outdated instructions from the GitLab installation guide and you can go
to the next step 'Stop server' below.

If you see a version string then it should be v1.8.5.6, v1.9.5, v2.0.5, v2.1.4,
v2.2.1 or newer. You can use the [instructions in the GitLab source installation
guide](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/master/doc/install/installation.md#1-packages-dependencies)
to install a newer version of Git.

### 1. Stop server

    sudo service gitlab stop

### 2. Backup

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:backup:create RAILS_ENV=production
```

### 3. Get latest code

```bash
sudo -u git -H git fetch --all
sudo -u git -H git checkout -- db/schema.rb # local changes will be restored automatically
```

For GitLab Community Edition:

```bash
sudo -u git -H git checkout 8-3-stable
```

OR

For GitLab Enterprise Edition:

```bash
sudo -u git -H git checkout 8-3-stable-ee
```

### 4. Update gitlab-shell

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab-shell
sudo -u git -H git fetch --all
sudo -u git -H git checkout v2.6.9
```

### 5. Update gitlab-workhorse

Install and compile gitlab-workhorse. This requires [Go 1.5](https://golang.org/dl)
which should already be on your system from GitLab 8.1.

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab-workhorse
sudo -u git -H git fetch --all
sudo -u git -H git checkout 0.5.4
sudo -u git -H make
```

### 6. Install libs, migrations, etc.

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

# MySQL installations (note: the line below states '--without postgres')
sudo -u git -H bundle install --without postgres development test --deployment

# PostgreSQL installations (note: the line below states '--without mysql')
sudo -u git -H bundle install --without mysql development test --deployment

# Run database migrations
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake db:migrate RAILS_ENV=production

# Clean up assets and cache
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake assets:clean assets:precompile cache:clear RAILS_ENV=production

```

### 7. Update configuration files

#### New configuration options for `gitlab.yml`

There are new configuration options available for [`gitlab.yml`][yaml]. View them with the command below and apply them manually to your current `gitlab.yml`:

```sh
git diff origin/8-2-stable:config/gitlab.yml.example origin/8-3-stable:config/gitlab.yml.example
```

#### GitLab default file

The value of the `gitlab_workhorse_options` variable should be updated within the default gitlab file (`/etc/default/gitlab`) according to the following diff:

```sh
git diff origin/8-2-stable:lib/support/init.d/gitlab.default.example origin/8-3-stable:lib/support/init.d/gitlab.default.example
```

#### Nginx configuration

GitLab 8.3 introduces major changes in the NGINX configuration.
Because all HTTP requests pass through gitlab-workhorse now a lot of
directives need to be removed from NGINX. During future upgrades there
should be much less changes in the NGINX configuration because of
this.

View changes between the previous recommended Nginx configuration and the
current one:

```sh
# For HTTPS configurations
git diff origin/8-2-stable:lib/support/nginx/gitlab-ssl origin/8-3-stable:lib/support/nginx/gitlab-ssl

# For HTTP configurations
git diff origin/8-2-stable:lib/support/nginx/gitlab origin/8-3-stable:lib/support/nginx/gitlab
```

If you are using Apache instead of NGINX please see the updated [Apache templates].
Also note that because Apache does not support upstreams behind Unix sockets you
will need to let gitlab-workhorse listen on a TCP port. You can do this
via [/etc/default/gitlab].

[Apache templates]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-recipes/tree/master/web-server/apache
[/etc/default/gitlab]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/8-3-stable/lib/support/init.d/gitlab.default.example#L34

#### Init script

We updated the init script for GitLab in order to pass new
configuration options to gitlab-workhorse. We let gitlab-workhorse
connect to the Rails application via a Unix domain socket and we tell
it where the 'public' directory of GitLab is.

```
cd /home/git/gitlab
sudo cp lib/support/init.d/gitlab /etc/init.d/gitlab
```
    
For Ubuntu 16.04.1 LTS:

    sudo systemctl daemon-reload

### 8. Use Redis v2.8.0+

Previous versions of GitLab allowed Redis versions >= 2.0 to be used, but
GitLab 8.3 uses Sidekiq 4.0, which requires Redis 2.8. You can check your Redis version
with the following command:

    redis-cli info | grep redis_version

If you need to upgrade, see the [installation guide for Redis](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/8-3-stable/doc/install/installation.md#6-redis).

### 9. Start application

    sudo service gitlab start
    sudo service nginx restart

### 10. Check application status

Check if GitLab and its environment are configured correctly:

    sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:env:info RAILS_ENV=production

To make sure you didn't miss anything run a more thorough check:

    sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:check RAILS_ENV=production

If all items are green, then congratulations, the upgrade is complete!

## Things went south? Revert to previous version (8.2)

### 1. Revert the code to the previous version

Follow the [upgrade guide from 8.1 to 8.2](8.1-to-8.2.md), except for the
database migration (the backup is already migrated to the previous version).

### 2. Restore from the backup

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:backup:restore RAILS_ENV=production
```

If you have more than one backup `*.tar` file(s) please add `BACKUP=timestamp_of_backup` to the command above.

## Troubleshooting

### "You appear to have cloned an empty repository."

See the [7.14 to 8.0 update guide](7.14-to-8.0.md#troubleshooting).

[yaml]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/8-3-stable/config/gitlab.yml.example
