doc/university/README.md, before:

---
comments: false
type: index
---

# GitLab University

GitLab University is a great place to start when learning about version control with Git and GitLab, as well as other GitLab features.

If you're looking for a GitLab subscription for _your university_, see our [Education](https://about.gitlab.com/solutions/education/) page.

The GitLab University curriculum is composed of GitLab videos, screencasts, presentations, projects and external GitLab content hosted on other services and has been organized into the following sections:

1. [GitLab Beginner](#1-gitlab-beginner).
1. [GitLab Intermediate](#2-gitlab-intermediate).
1. [GitLab Advanced](#3-gitlab-advanced).
1. [External Articles](#4-external-articles).
1. [Resources for GitLab Team Members](#5-resources-for-gitlab-team-members).

## 1. GitLab Beginner

### 1.1. Version Control and Git

1. [Version Control Systems](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/16sX7hUrCZyOFbpvnrAFrg6tVO5_yT98IgdAqOmXwBho/edit#slide=id.g72f2e4906_2_29)
1. [Code School: An Introduction to Git](https://www.codeschool.com/account/courses/try-git)

### 1.2. GitLab Basics

1. [An Overview of GitLab.com - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WaiL5DGEMR4)
1. [Why Use Git and GitLab - Slides](https://docs.google.com/a/gitlab.com/presentation/d/1RcZhFmn5VPvoFu6UMxhMOy7lAsToeBZRjLRn0LIdaNc/edit?usp=drive_web)
1. [GitLab Basics - Article](../gitlab-basics/README.md)
1. [Git and GitLab Basics - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=03wb9FvO4Ak&index=5&list=PLFGfElNsQthbQu_IWlNOxul0TbS_2JH-e)
1. [Git and GitLab Basics - Online Course](https://courses.platzi.com/classes/git-gitlab/concepto/part-1/part-23370/material/)
1. [Comparison of GitLab Versions](https://about.gitlab.com/features/#compare)

### 1.3. Your GitLab Account

1. [Create a GitLab Account - Online Course](https://courses.platzi.com/classes/git-gitlab/concepto/first-steps/create-an-account-on-gitlab/material/)
1. [Create and Add your SSH key to GitLab - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=54mxyLo3Mqk)

### 1.4. GitLab Projects

1. [Repositories, Projects and Groups - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4TWfh1aKHHw&index=1&list=PLFGfElNsQthbQu_IWlNOxul0TbS_2JH-e)
1. [Creating a Project in GitLab - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7p0hrpNaJ14)
1. [How to Create Files and Directories](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/02/10/feature-highlight-create-files-and-directories-from-files-page/)
1. [GitLab Todos](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/03/02/gitlab-todos-feature-highlight/)
1. [GitLab's Work in Progress (WIP) Flag](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/01/08/feature-highlight-wip/)

### 1.5. Migrating from other Source Control

1. [Migrating from BitBucket/Stash](../user/project/import/bitbucket.md)
1. [Migrating from GitHub](../user/project/import/github.md)
1. [Migrating from SVN](../user/project/import/svn.md)
1. [Migrating from Fogbugz](../user/project/import/fogbugz.md)

### 1.6. GitLab Inc.

1. [About GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/about/)
1. [GitLab Direction](https://about.gitlab.com/direction/)
1. [GitLab Master Plan](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/09/13/gitlab-master-plan/)
1. [Making GitLab Great for Everyone - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GGC40y4vMx0) - Response to "Dear GitHub" letter
1. [Using Innersourcing to Improve Collaboration](https://about.gitlab.com/2014/09/05/innersourcing-using-the-open-source-workflow-to-improve-collaboration-within-an-organization/)
1. [The Software Development Market and GitLab - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sXlhgPK1NTY&list=PLFGfElNsQthbQu_IWlNOxul0TbS_2JH-e&index=6) - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1vCU-NbZWz8NTNK8Vu3y4zGMAHb5DpC8PE5mHtw1PWfI/edit)
1. [The GitLab Book Club](bookclub/index.md)
1. [GitLab Resources](https://about.gitlab.com/resources/)

### 1.7 Community and Support

1. [Getting Help](https://about.gitlab.com/getting-help/)
   - Proposing Features and Reporting and Tracking bugs for GitLab
   - The GitLab IRC channel, Gitter Chat Room, Community Forum and Mailing List
   - Getting Technical Support
   - Being part of our Great Community and Contributing to GitLab
1. [Getting Started with the GitLab Development Kit (GDK)](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/06/08/getting-started-with-gitlab-development-kit/)
1. [Contributing Technical Articles to the GitLab Blog](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/01/26/call-for-writers/)
1. [GitLab Training Workshops](training/end-user/README.md)
1. [GitLab Professional Services](https://about.gitlab.com/services/)

### 1.8 GitLab Training Material

1. [Git and GitLab Workshop - Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1JzTYD8ij9slejV2-TO-NzjCvlvj6mVn9BORePXNJoMI/edit?usp=drive_web)

## 2. GitLab Intermediate

### 2.1 GitLab Pages

1. [Using any Static Site Generator with GitLab Pages](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/06/17/ssg-overview-gitlab-pages-part-3-examples-ci/)
1. [Securing GitLab Pages with SSL](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/06/24/secure-gitlab-pages-with-startssl/)
1. [GitLab Pages Documentation](../user/project/pages/index.md)

### 2.2. GitLab Issues

1. [Markdown in GitLab](../user/markdown.md)
1. [Issues and Merge Requests - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=raXvuwet78M)
1. [Due Dates and Milestones for GitLab Issues](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/08/05/feature-highlight-set-dates-for-issues/)
1. [How to Use GitLab Labels](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/08/17/using-gitlab-labels/)
1. [Applying GitLab Labels Automatically](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/08/19/applying-gitlab-labels-automatically/)
1. [GitLab Issue Board - Product Page](https://about.gitlab.com/product/issueboard/)
1. [An Overview of GitLab Issue Board](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/08/22/announcing-the-gitlab-issue-board/)
1. [Designing GitLab Issue Board](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/08/31/designing-issue-boards/)
1. [From Idea to Production with GitLab - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=25pHyknRgEo&index=14&list=PLFGfElNsQthbQu_IWlNOxul0TbS_2JH-e)

### 2.3. Continuous Integration

1. [Operating Systems, Servers, VMs, Containers and Unix - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V61kL6IC-zY&index=8&list=PLFGfElNsQthbQu_IWlNOxul0TbS_2JH-e)
1. [GitLab CI - Product Page](https://about.gitlab.com/gitlab-ci/)
1. [Getting started with GitLab and GitLab CI](https://about.gitlab.com/2015/12/14/getting-started-with-gitlab-and-gitlab-ci/)
1. [GitLab Container Registry](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/05/23/gitlab-container-registry/)
1. [GitLab and Docker - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ugOrCcbdHko&index=12&list=PLFGfElNsQthbQu_IWlNOxul0TbS_2JH-e)
1. [How we scale GitLab with built in Docker](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/06/21/how-we-scale-gitlab-by-having-docker-built-in/)
1. [Continuous Integration, Delivery, and Deployment with GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/08/05/continuous-integration-delivery-and-deployment-with-gitlab/)
1. [Deployments and Environments](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/08/26/ci-deployment-and-environments/)
1. [Sequential, Parallel or Custom Pipelines](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/07/29/the-basics-of-gitlab-ci/)
1. [Setting up GitLab Runner For Continuous Integration](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/03/01/gitlab-runner-with-docker/)
1. [Setting up GitLab Runner on DigitalOcean](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/04/19/how-to-set-up-gitlab-runner-on-digitalocean/)
1. [Setting up GitLab CI for iOS projects](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/03/10/setting-up-gitlab-ci-for-ios-projects/)
1. [IBM: Continuous Delivery vs Continuous Deployment - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=igwFj8PPSnw)
1. [Amazon: Transition to Continuous Delivery - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=esEFaY0FDKc)
1. [TechBeacon: Doing continuous delivery? Focus first on reducing release cycle times](https://techbeacon.com/doing-continuous-delivery-focus-first-reducing-release-cycle-times)
1. See **[Integrations](#39-integrations)** for integrations with other CI services.

### 2.4. Workflow

1. [GitLab Flow - Video](https://youtu.be/enMumwvLAug?list=PLFGfElNsQthZnwMUFi6rqkyUZkI00OxIV)
1. [GitLab Flow vs Forking in GitLab - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UGotqAUACZA)
1. [GitLab Flow Overview](https://about.gitlab.com/2014/09/29/gitlab-flow/)
1. [Always Start with an Issue](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/03/03/start-with-an-issue/)
1. [GitLab Flow Documentation](../workflow/gitlab_flow.md)

### 2.5. GitLab Comparisons

1. [GitLab Compared to Other Tools](https://about.gitlab.com/comparison/)
1. [Comparing GitLab Terminology](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/01/27/comparing-terms-gitlab-github-bitbucket/)
1. [GitLab Compared to Atlassian (Recording 2016-03-03)](https://youtu.be/Nbzp1t45ERo)
1. [GitLab Position FAQ](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/positioning-faq)
1. [Customer review of GitLab with points on why they prefer GitLab](https://www.enovate.co.uk/web-design-blog/2015/11/25/gitlab-review/)

## 3. GitLab Advanced

### 3.1. Dev Ops

1. [Xebia Labs: Dev Ops Terminology](https://xebialabs.com/glossary/)
1. [Xebia Labs: Periodic Table of DevOps Tools](https://xebialabs.com/periodic-table-of-devops-tools/)
1. [Puppet Labs: State of Dev Ops 2016 - Book](https://puppet.com/resources/white-paper/2016-state-of-devops-report)

### 3.2. Installing GitLab with Omnibus

1. [What is Omnibus - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XTmpKudd-Oo)
1. [How to Install GitLab with Omnibus - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q69YaOjqNhg)
1. [Installing GitLab - Online Course](https://courses.platzi.com/classes/git-gitlab/concepto/part-1/part-3/material/)
1. [Using a Non-Packaged PostgreSQL Database](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab/blob/master/README.md#using-a-non-packaged-postgresql-database-management-server)
1. [Installing GitLab on Microsoft Azure](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/07/13/how-to-setup-a-gitlab-instance-on-microsoft-azure/)
1. [Installing GitLab on Digital Ocean](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/04/27/getting-started-with-gitlab-and-digitalocean/)

### 3.3. Permissions

1. [How to Manage Permissions in GitLab EE - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DjUoIrkiNuM)

### 3.4. Large Files

1. [Big files in Git (Git LFS) - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DawznUxYDe4)

### 3.5. LDAP and Active Directory

1. [How to Manage LDAP, Active Directory in GitLab - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HPMjM-14qa8)

### 3.6 Custom Languages

1. [How to add Syntax Highlighting Support for Custom Languages to GitLab - Video](https://youtu.be/6WxTMqatrrA)

### 3.7. Scalability and High Availability

1. [Scalability and High Availability - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cXRMJJb6sp4&list=PLFGfElNsQthbQu_IWlNOxul0TbS_2JH-e&index=2)
1. [High Availability - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=36KS808u6bE&index=15&list=PLFGfElNsQthbQu_IWlNOxul0TbS_2JH-e)
1. [High Availability Documentation](https://about.gitlab.com/high-availability/)

### 3.8 Cycle Analytics

1. [GitLab Cycle Analytics Overview](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/09/21/cycle-analytics-feature-highlight/)
1. [GitLab Cycle Analytics - Product Page](https://about.gitlab.com/product/cycle-analytics/)

### 3.9. Integrations

1. [How to Integrate Jira and Jenkins with GitLab - Video](https://gitlabmeetings.webex.com/gitlabmeetings/ldr.php?RCID=44b548147a67ab4d8a62274047146415)
1. [How to Integrate Jira with GitLab](../user/project/integrations/jira.md)
1. [How to Integrate Jenkins with GitLab](../integration/jenkins.md)
1. [How to Integrate Bamboo with GitLab](../user/project/integrations/bamboo.md)
1. [How to Integrate Slack with GitLab](../user/project/integrations/slack.md)
1. [How to Integrate Convox with GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/06/09/continuous-delivery-with-gitlab-and-convox/)
1. [Getting Started with GitLab and Shippable CI](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/05/05/getting-started-gitlab-and-shippable/)

## 4. External Articles

1. [2011 WSJ article by Marc Andreessen - Software is Eating the World](https://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424053111903480904576512250915629460)
1. [2014 Blog post by Chris Dixon - Software eats software development](http://cdixon.org/2014/04/13/software-eats-software-development/)
1. [2015 Venture Beat article - Actually, Open Source is Eating the World](http://venturebeat.com/2015/12/06/its-actually-open-source-software-thats-eating-the-world/)

## 5. Resources for GitLab Team Members

NOTE: **Note:**
Some content can only be accessed by GitLab team members.

1. [Support Path](support/README.md)
1. [Sales Path](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/sales-onboarding/)
1. [User Training](training/user_training.md)
1. [GitLab Flow Training](training/gitlab_flow.md)
1. [Training Topics](training/index.md)
1. [GitLab architecture](../development/architecture.md)
1. [Client Assessment of GitLab versus GitHub](https://docs.google.com/a/gitlab.com/spreadsheets/d/18cRF9Y5I6I7Z_ab6qhBEW55YpEMyU4PitZYjomVHM-M/edit?usp=sharing)

Commit message:

Note GitLab University may be out of date in parts

doc/university/README.md, after:

---
comments: false
type: index
---

# GitLab University

GitLab University is a great place to start when learning about version control with Git and GitLab, as well as other GitLab features.

If you're looking for a GitLab subscription for _your university_, see our [Education](https://about.gitlab.com/solutions/education/) page.

CAUTION: **Caution:**
Some of the content in GitLab University may be out of date and we plan to
[evaluate](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/41064) it.

The GitLab University curriculum is composed of GitLab videos, screencasts, presentations, projects and external GitLab content hosted on other services and has been organized into the following sections:

1. [GitLab Beginner](#1-gitlab-beginner).
1. [GitLab Intermediate](#2-gitlab-intermediate).
1. [GitLab Advanced](#3-gitlab-advanced).
1. [External Articles](#4-external-articles).
1. [Resources for GitLab Team Members](#5-resources-for-gitlab-team-members).

## 1. GitLab Beginner

### 1.1. Version Control and Git

1. [Version Control Systems](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/16sX7hUrCZyOFbpvnrAFrg6tVO5_yT98IgdAqOmXwBho/edit#slide=id.g72f2e4906_2_29)
1. [Code School: An Introduction to Git](https://www.codeschool.com/account/courses/try-git)

### 1.2. GitLab Basics

1. [An Overview of GitLab.com - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WaiL5DGEMR4)
1. [Why Use Git and GitLab - Slides](https://docs.google.com/a/gitlab.com/presentation/d/1RcZhFmn5VPvoFu6UMxhMOy7lAsToeBZRjLRn0LIdaNc/edit?usp=drive_web)
1. [GitLab Basics - Article](../gitlab-basics/README.md)
1. [Git and GitLab Basics - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=03wb9FvO4Ak&index=5&list=PLFGfElNsQthbQu_IWlNOxul0TbS_2JH-e)
1. [Git and GitLab Basics - Online Course](https://courses.platzi.com/classes/git-gitlab/concepto/part-1/part-23370/material/)
1. [Comparison of GitLab Versions](https://about.gitlab.com/features/#compare)

### 1.3. Your GitLab Account

1. [Create a GitLab Account - Online Course](https://courses.platzi.com/classes/git-gitlab/concepto/first-steps/create-an-account-on-gitlab/material/)
1. [Create and Add your SSH key to GitLab - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=54mxyLo3Mqk)

### 1.4. GitLab Projects

1. [Repositories, Projects and Groups - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4TWfh1aKHHw&index=1&list=PLFGfElNsQthbQu_IWlNOxul0TbS_2JH-e)
1. [Creating a Project in GitLab - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7p0hrpNaJ14)
1. [How to Create Files and Directories](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/02/10/feature-highlight-create-files-and-directories-from-files-page/)
1. [GitLab Todos](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/03/02/gitlab-todos-feature-highlight/)
1. [GitLab's Work in Progress (WIP) Flag](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/01/08/feature-highlight-wip/)

### 1.5. Migrating from other Source Control

1. [Migrating from BitBucket/Stash](../user/project/import/bitbucket.md)
1. [Migrating from GitHub](../user/project/import/github.md)
1. [Migrating from SVN](../user/project/import/svn.md)
1. [Migrating from Fogbugz](../user/project/import/fogbugz.md)

### 1.6. GitLab Inc.

1. [About GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/about/)
1. [GitLab Direction](https://about.gitlab.com/direction/)
1. [GitLab Master Plan](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/09/13/gitlab-master-plan/)
1. [Making GitLab Great for Everyone - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GGC40y4vMx0) - Response to "Dear GitHub" letter
1. [Using Innersourcing to Improve Collaboration](https://about.gitlab.com/2014/09/05/innersourcing-using-the-open-source-workflow-to-improve-collaboration-within-an-organization/)
1. [The Software Development Market and GitLab - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sXlhgPK1NTY&list=PLFGfElNsQthbQu_IWlNOxul0TbS_2JH-e&index=6) - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1vCU-NbZWz8NTNK8Vu3y4zGMAHb5DpC8PE5mHtw1PWfI/edit)
1. [The GitLab Book Club](bookclub/index.md)
1. [GitLab Resources](https://about.gitlab.com/resources/)

### 1.7 Community and Support

1. [Getting Help](https://about.gitlab.com/getting-help/)
   - Proposing Features and Reporting and Tracking bugs for GitLab
   - The GitLab IRC channel, Gitter Chat Room, Community Forum and Mailing List
   - Getting Technical Support
   - Being part of our Great Community and Contributing to GitLab
1. [Getting Started with the GitLab Development Kit (GDK)](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/06/08/getting-started-with-gitlab-development-kit/)
1. [Contributing Technical Articles to the GitLab Blog](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/01/26/call-for-writers/)
1. [GitLab Training Workshops](training/end-user/README.md)
1. [GitLab Professional Services](https://about.gitlab.com/services/)

### 1.8 GitLab Training Material

1. [Git and GitLab Workshop - Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1JzTYD8ij9slejV2-TO-NzjCvlvj6mVn9BORePXNJoMI/edit?usp=drive_web)

## 2. GitLab Intermediate

### 2.1 GitLab Pages

1. [Using any Static Site Generator with GitLab Pages](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/06/17/ssg-overview-gitlab-pages-part-3-examples-ci/)
1. [Securing GitLab Pages with SSL](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/06/24/secure-gitlab-pages-with-startssl/)
1. [GitLab Pages Documentation](../user/project/pages/index.md)

### 2.2. GitLab Issues

1. [Markdown in GitLab](../user/markdown.md)
1. [Issues and Merge Requests - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=raXvuwet78M)
1. [Due Dates and Milestones for GitLab Issues](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/08/05/feature-highlight-set-dates-for-issues/)
1. [How to Use GitLab Labels](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/08/17/using-gitlab-labels/)
1. [Applying GitLab Labels Automatically](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/08/19/applying-gitlab-labels-automatically/)
1. [GitLab Issue Board - Product Page](https://about.gitlab.com/product/issueboard/)
1. [An Overview of GitLab Issue Board](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/08/22/announcing-the-gitlab-issue-board/)
1. [Designing GitLab Issue Board](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/08/31/designing-issue-boards/)
1. [From Idea to Production with GitLab - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=25pHyknRgEo&index=14&list=PLFGfElNsQthbQu_IWlNOxul0TbS_2JH-e)

### 2.3. Continuous Integration

1. [Operating Systems, Servers, VMs, Containers and Unix - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V61kL6IC-zY&index=8&list=PLFGfElNsQthbQu_IWlNOxul0TbS_2JH-e)
1. [GitLab CI - Product Page](https://about.gitlab.com/gitlab-ci/)
1. [Getting started with GitLab and GitLab CI](https://about.gitlab.com/2015/12/14/getting-started-with-gitlab-and-gitlab-ci/)
1. [GitLab Container Registry](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/05/23/gitlab-container-registry/)
1. [GitLab and Docker - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ugOrCcbdHko&index=12&list=PLFGfElNsQthbQu_IWlNOxul0TbS_2JH-e)
1. [How we scale GitLab with built in Docker](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/06/21/how-we-scale-gitlab-by-having-docker-built-in/)
1. [Continuous Integration, Delivery, and Deployment with GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/08/05/continuous-integration-delivery-and-deployment-with-gitlab/)
1. [Deployments and Environments](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/08/26/ci-deployment-and-environments/)
1. [Sequential, Parallel or Custom Pipelines](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/07/29/the-basics-of-gitlab-ci/)
1. [Setting up GitLab Runner For Continuous Integration](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/03/01/gitlab-runner-with-docker/)
1. [Setting up GitLab Runner on DigitalOcean](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/04/19/how-to-set-up-gitlab-runner-on-digitalocean/)
1. [Setting up GitLab CI for iOS projects](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/03/10/setting-up-gitlab-ci-for-ios-projects/)
1. [IBM: Continuous Delivery vs Continuous Deployment - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=igwFj8PPSnw)
1. [Amazon: Transition to Continuous Delivery - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=esEFaY0FDKc)
1. [TechBeacon: Doing continuous delivery? Focus first on reducing release cycle times](https://techbeacon.com/doing-continuous-delivery-focus-first-reducing-release-cycle-times)
1. See **[Integrations](#39-integrations)** for integrations with other CI services.

### 2.4. Workflow

1. [GitLab Flow - Video](https://youtu.be/enMumwvLAug?list=PLFGfElNsQthZnwMUFi6rqkyUZkI00OxIV)
1. [GitLab Flow vs Forking in GitLab - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UGotqAUACZA)
1. [GitLab Flow Overview](https://about.gitlab.com/2014/09/29/gitlab-flow/)
1. [Always Start with an Issue](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/03/03/start-with-an-issue/)
1. [GitLab Flow Documentation](../workflow/gitlab_flow.md)

### 2.5. GitLab Comparisons

1. [GitLab Compared to Other Tools](https://about.gitlab.com/comparison/)
1. [Comparing GitLab Terminology](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/01/27/comparing-terms-gitlab-github-bitbucket/)
1. [GitLab Compared to Atlassian (Recording 2016-03-03)](https://youtu.be/Nbzp1t45ERo)
1. [GitLab Position FAQ](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/positioning-faq)
1. [Customer review of GitLab with points on why they prefer GitLab](https://www.enovate.co.uk/web-design-blog/2015/11/25/gitlab-review/)

## 3. GitLab Advanced

### 3.1. Dev Ops

1. [Xebia Labs: Dev Ops Terminology](https://xebialabs.com/glossary/)
1. [Xebia Labs: Periodic Table of DevOps Tools](https://xebialabs.com/periodic-table-of-devops-tools/)
1. [Puppet Labs: State of Dev Ops 2016 - Book](https://puppet.com/resources/white-paper/2016-state-of-devops-report)

### 3.2. Installing GitLab with Omnibus

1. [What is Omnibus - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XTmpKudd-Oo)
1. [How to Install GitLab with Omnibus - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q69YaOjqNhg)
1. [Installing GitLab - Online Course](https://courses.platzi.com/classes/git-gitlab/concepto/part-1/part-3/material/)
1. [Using a Non-Packaged PostgreSQL Database](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab/blob/master/README.md#using-a-non-packaged-postgresql-database-management-server)
1. [Installing GitLab on Microsoft Azure](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/07/13/how-to-setup-a-gitlab-instance-on-microsoft-azure/)
1. [Installing GitLab on Digital Ocean](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/04/27/getting-started-with-gitlab-and-digitalocean/)

### 3.3. Permissions

1. [How to Manage Permissions in GitLab EE - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DjUoIrkiNuM)

### 3.4. Large Files

1. [Big files in Git (Git LFS) - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DawznUxYDe4)

### 3.5. LDAP and Active Directory

1. [How to Manage LDAP, Active Directory in GitLab - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HPMjM-14qa8)

### 3.6 Custom Languages

1. [How to add Syntax Highlighting Support for Custom Languages to GitLab - Video](https://youtu.be/6WxTMqatrrA)

### 3.7. Scalability and High Availability

1. [Scalability and High Availability - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cXRMJJb6sp4&list=PLFGfElNsQthbQu_IWlNOxul0TbS_2JH-e&index=2)
1. [High Availability - Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=36KS808u6bE&index=15&list=PLFGfElNsQthbQu_IWlNOxul0TbS_2JH-e)
1. [High Availability Documentation](https://about.gitlab.com/high-availability/)

### 3.8 Cycle Analytics

1. [GitLab Cycle Analytics Overview](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/09/21/cycle-analytics-feature-highlight/)
1. [GitLab Cycle Analytics - Product Page](https://about.gitlab.com/product/cycle-analytics/)

### 3.9. Integrations

1. [How to Integrate Jira and Jenkins with GitLab - Video](https://gitlabmeetings.webex.com/gitlabmeetings/ldr.php?RCID=44b548147a67ab4d8a62274047146415)
1. [How to Integrate Jira with GitLab](../user/project/integrations/jira.md)
1. [How to Integrate Jenkins with GitLab](../integration/jenkins.md)
1. [How to Integrate Bamboo with GitLab](../user/project/integrations/bamboo.md)
1. [How to Integrate Slack with GitLab](../user/project/integrations/slack.md)
1. [How to Integrate Convox with GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/06/09/continuous-delivery-with-gitlab-and-convox/)
1. [Getting Started with GitLab and Shippable CI](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/05/05/getting-started-gitlab-and-shippable/)

## 4. External Articles

1. [2011 WSJ article by Marc Andreessen - Software is Eating the World](https://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424053111903480904576512250915629460)
1. [2014 Blog post by Chris Dixon - Software eats software development](http://cdixon.org/2014/04/13/software-eats-software-development/)
1. [2015 Venture Beat article - Actually, Open Source is Eating the World](http://venturebeat.com/2015/12/06/its-actually-open-source-software-thats-eating-the-world/)

## 5. Resources for GitLab Team Members

NOTE: **Note:**
Some content can only be accessed by GitLab team members.

1. [Support Path](support/README.md)
1. [Sales Path](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/sales-onboarding/)
1. [User Training](training/user_training.md)
1. [GitLab Flow Training](training/gitlab_flow.md)
1. [Training Topics](training/index.md)
1. [GitLab architecture](../development/architecture.md)
1. [Client Assessment of GitLab versus GitHub](https://docs.google.com/a/gitlab.com/spreadsheets/d/18cRF9Y5I6I7Z_ab6qhBEW55YpEMyU4PitZYjomVHM-M/edit?usp=sharing)
