doc/system_hooks/system_hooks.md, before:

---
type: reference
---

# System hooks

Your GitLab instance can perform HTTP POST requests on the following events:

- `project_create`
- `project_destroy`
- `project_rename`
- `project_transfer`
- `project_update`
- `user_add_to_team`
- `user_remove_from_team`
- `user_create`
- `user_destroy`
- `user_failed_login`
- `user_rename`
- `key_create`
- `key_destroy`
- `group_create`
- `group_destroy`
- `group_rename`
- `user_add_to_group`
- `user_remove_from_group`

The triggers for most of these are self-explanatory, but `project_update` and `project_rename` deserve some clarification: `project_update` is fired any time an attribute of a project is changed (name, description, tags, etc.) *unless* the `path` attribute is also changed. In that case, a `project_rename` is triggered instead (so that, for instance, if all you care about is the repo URL, you can just listen for `project_rename`).

`user_failed_login` is sent whenever a **blocked** user attempts to login and denied access.

System hooks can be used, e.g. for logging or changing information in a LDAP server.

NOTE: **Note:**
We follow the same structure and deprecations as [Webhooks](../user/project/integrations/webhooks.md)
for Push and Tag events, but we never display commits.

## Hooks request example

**Request header**:

```
X-Gitlab-Event: System Hook
```

**Project created:**

```json
{
          "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:30:54Z",
          "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
          "event_name": "project_create",
                "name": "StoreCloud",
         "owner_email": "johnsmith@gmail.com",
          "owner_name": "John Smith",
                "path": "storecloud",
 "path_with_namespace": "jsmith/storecloud",
          "project_id": 74,
  "project_visibility": "private"
}
```

**Project destroyed:**

```json
{
          "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:30:58Z",
          "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
          "event_name": "project_destroy",
                "name": "Underscore",
         "owner_email": "johnsmith@gmail.com",
          "owner_name": "John Smith",
                "path": "underscore",
 "path_with_namespace": "jsmith/underscore",
          "project_id": 73,
  "project_visibility": "internal"
}
```

**Project renamed:**

```json
{
               "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:30:58Z",
               "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
               "event_name": "project_rename",
                     "name": "Underscore",
                     "path": "underscore",
      "path_with_namespace": "jsmith/underscore",
               "project_id": 73,
               "owner_name": "John Smith",
              "owner_email": "johnsmith@gmail.com",
       "project_visibility": "internal",
  "old_path_with_namespace": "jsmith/overscore"
}
```

Note that `project_rename` is not triggered if the namespace changes.
Please refer to `group_rename` and `user_rename` for that case.

**Project transferred:**

```json
{
               "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:30:58Z",
               "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
               "event_name": "project_transfer",
                     "name": "Underscore",
                     "path": "underscore",
      "path_with_namespace": "scores/underscore",
               "project_id": 73,
               "owner_name": "John Smith",
              "owner_email": "johnsmith@gmail.com",
       "project_visibility": "internal",
  "old_path_with_namespace": "jsmith/overscore"
}
```

**Project updated:**

```json
{
          "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:30:54Z",
          "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
          "event_name": "project_update",
                "name": "StoreCloud",
         "owner_email": "johnsmith@gmail.com",
          "owner_name": "John Smith",
                "path": "storecloud",
 "path_with_namespace": "jsmith/storecloud",
          "project_id": 74,
  "project_visibility": "private"
}
```

**New Team Member:**

```json
{
                  "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:30:56Z",
                  "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
                  "event_name": "user_add_to_team",
                "access_level": "Maintainer",
                  "project_id": 74,
                "project_name": "StoreCloud",
                "project_path": "storecloud",
 "project_path_with_namespace": "jsmith/storecloud",
                  "user_email": "johnsmith@gmail.com",
                   "user_name": "John Smith",
               "user_username": "johnsmith",
                     "user_id": 41,
          "project_visibility": "visibilitylevel|private"
}
```

**Team Member Removed:**

```json
{
                  "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:30:56Z",
                  "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
                  "event_name": "user_remove_from_team",
                "access_level": "Maintainer",
                  "project_id": 74,
                "project_name": "StoreCloud",
                "project_path": "storecloud",
 "project_path_with_namespace": "jsmith/storecloud",
                  "user_email": "johnsmith@gmail.com",
                   "user_name": "John Smith",
               "user_username": "johnsmith",
                     "user_id": 41,
          "project_visibility": "visibilitylevel|private"
}
```

**User created:**

```json
{
   "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:44:07Z",
   "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
        "email": "js@gitlabhq.com",
   "event_name": "user_create",
         "name": "John Smith",
     "username": "js",
      "user_id": 41
}
```

**User removed:**

```json
{
   "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:44:07Z",
   "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
        "email": "js@gitlabhq.com",
   "event_name": "user_destroy",
         "name": "John Smith",
     "username": "js",
      "user_id": 41
}
```

**User failed login:**

```json
{
  "event_name": "user_failed_login",
  "created_at": "2017-10-03T06:08:48Z",
  "updated_at": "2018-01-15T04:52:06Z",
        "name": "John Smith",
       "email": "user4@example.com",
     "user_id": 26,
    "username": "user4",
       "state": "blocked"
}
```

If the user is blocked via LDAP, `state` will be `ldap_blocked`.

**User renamed:**

```json
{
    "event_name": "user_rename",
    "created_at": "2017-11-01T11:21:04Z",
    "updated_at": "2017-11-01T14:04:47Z",
          "name": "new-name",
         "email": "best-email@example.tld",
       "user_id": 58,
      "username": "new-exciting-name",
  "old_username": "old-boring-name"
}
```

**Key added**

```json
{
    "event_name": "key_create",
    "created_at": "2014-08-18 18:45:16 UTC",
    "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
      "username": "root",
           "key": "ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABAQC58FwqHUbebw2SdT7SP4FxZ0w+lAO/erhy2ylhlcW/tZ3GY3mBu9VeeiSGoGz8hCx80Zrz+aQv28xfFfKlC8XQFpCWwsnWnQqO2Lv9bS8V1fIHgMxOHIt5Vs+9CAWGCCvUOAurjsUDoE2ALIXLDMKnJxcxD13XjWdK54j6ZXDB4syLF0C2PnAQSVY9X7MfCYwtuFmhQhKaBussAXpaVMRHltie3UYSBUUuZaB3J4cg/7TxlmxcNd+ppPRIpSZAB0NI6aOnqoBCpimscO/VpQRJMVLr3XiSYeT6HBiDXWHnIVPfQc03OGcaFqOit6p8lYKMaP/iUQLm+pgpZqrXZ9vB john@localhost",
           "id": 4
}
```

**Key removed**

```json
{
    "event_name": "key_destroy",
    "created_at": "2014-08-18 18:45:16 UTC",
    "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
      "username": "root",
           "key": "ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABAQC58FwqHUbebw2SdT7SP4FxZ0w+lAO/erhy2ylhlcW/tZ3GY3mBu9VeeiSGoGz8hCx80Zrz+aQv28xfFfKlC8XQFpCWwsnWnQqO2Lv9bS8V1fIHgMxOHIt5Vs+9CAWGCCvUOAurjsUDoE2ALIXLDMKnJxcxD13XjWdK54j6ZXDB4syLF0C2PnAQSVY9X7MfCYwtuFmhQhKaBussAXpaVMRHltie3UYSBUUuZaB3J4cg/7TxlmxcNd+ppPRIpSZAB0NI6aOnqoBCpimscO/VpQRJMVLr3XiSYeT6HBiDXWHnIVPfQc03OGcaFqOit6p8lYKMaP/iUQLm+pgpZqrXZ9vB john@localhost",
            "id": 4
}
```

**Group created:**

```json
{
   "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:30:54Z",
   "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
   "event_name": "group_create",
         "name": "StoreCloud",
  "owner_email": null,
   "owner_name": null,
         "path": "storecloud",
     "group_id": 78
}
```

`owner_name` and `owner_email` are always `null`. Please see <https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/39675>.

**Group removed:**

```json
{
   "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:30:54Z",
   "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
   "event_name": "group_destroy",
         "name": "StoreCloud",
  "owner_email": null,
   "owner_name": null,
         "path": "storecloud",
     "group_id": 78
}
```

`owner_name` and `owner_email` are always `null`. Please see <https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/39675>.

**Group renamed:**

```json
{
     "event_name": "group_rename",
     "created_at": "2017-10-30T15:09:00Z",
     "updated_at": "2017-11-01T10:23:52Z",
           "name": "Better Name",
           "path": "better-name",
      "full_path": "parent-group/better-name",
       "group_id": 64,
     "owner_name": null,
    "owner_email": null,
       "old_path": "old-name",
  "old_full_path": "parent-group/old-name"
}
```

`owner_name` and `owner_email` are always `null`. Please see <https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/39675>.

**New Group Member:**

```json
{
    "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:30:56Z",
    "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
    "event_name": "user_add_to_group",
  "group_access": "Maintainer",
      "group_id": 78,
    "group_name": "StoreCloud",
    "group_path": "storecloud",
    "user_email": "johnsmith@gmail.com",
     "user_name": "John Smith",
 "user_username": "johnsmith",
       "user_id": 41
}
```

**Group Member Removed:**

```json
{
    "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:30:56Z",
    "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
    "event_name": "user_remove_from_group",
  "group_access": "Maintainer",
      "group_id": 78,
    "group_name": "StoreCloud",
    "group_path": "storecloud",
    "user_email": "johnsmith@gmail.com",
     "user_name": "John Smith",
 "user_username": "johnsmith",
       "user_id": 41
}
```

## Push events

Triggered when you push to the repository, except when pushing tags.
It generates one event per modified branch.

**Request header**:

```
X-Gitlab-Event: System Hook
```

**Request body:**

```json
{
  "event_name": "push",
  "before": "95790bf891e76fee5e1747ab589903a6a1f80f22",
  "after": "da1560886d4f094c3e6c9ef40349f7d38b5d27d7",
  "ref": "refs/heads/master",
  "checkout_sha": "da1560886d4f094c3e6c9ef40349f7d38b5d27d7",
  "user_id": 4,
  "user_name": "John Smith",
  "user_email": "john@example.com",
  "user_avatar": "https://s.gravatar.com/avatar/d4c74594d841139328695756648b6bd6?s=8://s.gravatar.com/avatar/d4c74594d841139328695756648b6bd6?s=80",
  "project_id": 15,
  "project":{
    "name":"Diaspora",
    "description":"",
    "web_url":"http://example.com/mike/diaspora",
    "avatar_url":null,
    "git_ssh_url":"git@example.com:mike/diaspora.git",
    "git_http_url":"http://example.com/mike/diaspora.git",
    "namespace":"Mike",
    "visibility_level":0,
    "path_with_namespace":"mike/diaspora",
    "default_branch":"master",
    "homepage":"http://example.com/mike/diaspora",
    "url":"git@example.com:mike/diaspora.git",
    "ssh_url":"git@example.com:mike/diaspora.git",
    "http_url":"http://example.com/mike/diaspora.git"
  },
  "repository":{
    "name": "Diaspora",
    "url": "git@example.com:mike/diaspora.git",
    "description": "",
    "homepage": "http://example.com/mike/diaspora",
    "git_http_url":"http://example.com/mike/diaspora.git",
    "git_ssh_url":"git@example.com:mike/diaspora.git",
    "visibility_level":0
  },
  "commits": [
    {
      "id": "c5feabde2d8cd023215af4d2ceeb7a64839fc428",
      "message": "Add simple search to projects in public area",
      "timestamp": "2013-05-13T18:18:08+00:00",
      "url": "https://dev.gitlab.org/gitlab/gitlabhq/commit/c5feabde2d8cd023215af4d2ceeb7a64839fc428",
      "author": {
        "name": "Dmitriy Zaporozhets",
        "email": "dmitriy.zaporozhets@gmail.com"
      }
    }
  ],
  "total_commits_count": 1
}
```

## Tag events

Triggered when you create (or delete) tags to the repository.
It generates one event per modified tag.

**Request header**:

```
X-Gitlab-Event: System Hook
```

**Request body:**

```json
{
  "event_name": "tag_push",
  "before": "0000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
  "after": "82b3d5ae55f7080f1e6022629cdb57bfae7cccc7",
  "ref": "refs/tags/v1.0.0",
  "checkout_sha": "5937ac0a7beb003549fc5fd26fc247adbce4a52e",
  "user_id": 1,
  "user_name": "John Smith",
  "user_avatar": "https://s.gravatar.com/avatar/d4c74594d841139328695756648b6bd6?s=8://s.gravatar.com/avatar/d4c74594d841139328695756648b6bd6?s=80",
  "project_id": 1,
  "project":{
    "name":"Example",
    "description":"",
    "web_url":"http://example.com/jsmith/example",
    "avatar_url":null,
    "git_ssh_url":"git@example.com:jsmith/example.git",
    "git_http_url":"http://example.com/jsmith/example.git",
    "namespace":"Jsmith",
    "visibility_level":0,
    "path_with_namespace":"jsmith/example",
    "default_branch":"master",
    "homepage":"http://example.com/jsmith/example",
    "url":"git@example.com:jsmith/example.git",
    "ssh_url":"git@example.com:jsmith/example.git",
    "http_url":"http://example.com/jsmith/example.git"
  },
  "repository":{
    "name": "Example",
    "url": "ssh://git@example.com/jsmith/example.git",
    "description": "",
    "homepage": "http://example.com/jsmith/example",
    "git_http_url":"http://example.com/jsmith/example.git",
    "git_ssh_url":"git@example.com:jsmith/example.git",
    "visibility_level":0
  },
  "commits": [],
  "total_commits_count": 0
}
```

### Merge request events

Triggered when a new merge request is created, an existing merge request was
updated/merged/closed or a commit is added in the source branch.

**Request header**:

```
X-Gitlab-Event: System Hook
```

```json
{
  "object_kind": "merge_request",
  "user": {
    "name": "Administrator",
    "username": "root",
    "avatar_url": "http://www.gravatar.com/avatar/e64c7d89f26bd1972efa854d13d7dd61?s=80&d=identicon"
  },
  "project": {
    "name": "Example",
    "description": "",
    "web_url": "http://example.com/jsmith/example",
    "avatar_url": null,
    "git_ssh_url": "git@example.com:jsmith/example.git",
    "git_http_url": "http://example.com/jsmith/example.git",
    "namespace": "Jsmith",
    "visibility_level": 0,
    "path_with_namespace": "jsmith/example",
    "default_branch": "master",
    "ci_config_path": "",
    "homepage": "http://example.com/jsmith/example",
    "url": "git@example.com:jsmith/example.git",
    "ssh_url": "git@example.com:jsmith/example.git",
    "http_url": "http://example.com/jsmith/example.git"
  },
  "object_attributes": {
    "id": 90,
    "target_branch": "master",
    "source_branch": "ms-viewport",
    "source_project_id": 14,
    "author_id": 51,
    "assignee_id": 6,
    "title": "MS-Viewport",
    "created_at": "2017-09-20T08:31:45.944Z",
    "updated_at": "2017-09-28T12:23:42.365Z",
    "milestone_id": null,
    "state": "opened",
    "merge_status": "unchecked",
    "target_project_id": 14,
    "iid": 1,
    "description": "",
    "updated_by_id": 1,
    "merge_error": null,
    "merge_params": {
      "force_remove_source_branch": "0"
    },
    "merge_when_pipeline_succeeds": false,
    "merge_user_id": null,
    "merge_commit_sha": null,
    "deleted_at": null,
    "in_progress_merge_commit_sha": null,
    "lock_version": 5,
    "time_estimate": 0,
    "last_edited_at": "2017-09-27T12:43:37.558Z",
    "last_edited_by_id": 1,
    "head_pipeline_id": 61,
    "ref_fetched": true,
    "merge_jid": null,
    "source": {
      "name": "Awesome Project",
      "description": "",
      "web_url": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project",
      "avatar_url": null,
      "git_ssh_url": "git@example.com:awesome_space/awesome_project.git",
      "git_http_url": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project.git",
      "namespace": "root",
      "visibility_level": 0,
      "path_with_namespace": "awesome_space/awesome_project",
      "default_branch": "master",
      "ci_config_path": "",
      "homepage": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project",
      "url": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project.git",
      "ssh_url": "git@example.com:awesome_space/awesome_project.git",
      "http_url": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project.git"
    },
    "target": {
      "name": "Awesome Project",
      "description": "Aut reprehenderit ut est.",
      "web_url": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project",
      "avatar_url": null,
      "git_ssh_url": "git@example.com:awesome_space/awesome_project.git",
      "git_http_url": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project.git",
      "namespace": "Awesome Space",
      "visibility_level": 0,
      "path_with_namespace": "awesome_space/awesome_project",
      "default_branch": "master",
      "ci_config_path": "",
      "homepage": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project",
      "url": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project.git",
      "ssh_url": "git@example.com:awesome_space/awesome_project.git",
      "http_url": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project.git"
    },
    "last_commit": {
      "id": "ba3e0d8ff79c80d5b0bbb4f3e2e343e0aaa662b7",
      "message": "fixed readme",
      "timestamp": "2017-09-26T16:12:57Z",
      "url": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project/commits/da1560886d4f094c3e6c9ef40349f7d38b5d27d7",
      "author": {
        "name": "GitLab dev user",
        "email": "gitlabdev@dv6700.(none)"
      }
    },
    "work_in_progress": false,
    "total_time_spent": 0,
    "human_total_time_spent": null,
    "human_time_estimate": null
  },
  "labels": null,
  "repository": {
    "name": "git-gpg-test",
    "url": "git@example.com:awesome_space/awesome_project.git",
    "description": "",
    "homepage": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project"
  }
}
```

## Repository Update events

Triggered only once when you push to the repository (including tags).

**Request header**:

```
X-Gitlab-Event: System Hook
```

**Request body:**

```json
{
  "event_name": "repository_update",
  "user_id": 1,
  "user_name": "John Smith",
  "user_email": "admin@example.com",
  "user_avatar": "https://s.gravatar.com/avatar/d4c74594d841139328695756648b6bd6?s=8://s.gravatar.com/avatar/d4c74594d841139328695756648b6bd6?s=80",
  "project_id": 1,
  "project": {
    "name":"Example",
    "description":"",
    "web_url":"http://example.com/jsmith/example",
    "avatar_url":null,
    "git_ssh_url":"git@example.com:jsmith/example.git",
    "git_http_url":"http://example.com/jsmith/example.git",
    "namespace":"Jsmith",
    "visibility_level":0,
    "path_with_namespace":"jsmith/example",
    "default_branch":"master",
    "homepage":"http://example.com/jsmith/example",
    "url":"git@example.com:jsmith/example.git",
    "ssh_url":"git@example.com:jsmith/example.git",
    "http_url":"http://example.com/jsmith/example.git",
  },
  "changes": [
    {
      "before":"8205ea8d81ce0c6b90fbe8280d118cc9fdad6130",
      "after":"4045ea7a3df38697b3730a20fb73c8bed8a3e69e",
      "ref":"refs/heads/master"
    }
  ],
  "refs":["refs/heads/master"]
}
```

<!-- ## Troubleshooting

Include any troubleshooting steps that you can foresee. If you know beforehand what issues
one might have when setting this up, or when something is changed, or on upgrading, it's
important to describe those, too. Think of things that may go wrong and include them here.
This is important to minimize requests for support, and to avoid doc comments with
questions that you know someone might ask.

Each scenario can be a third-level heading, e.g. `### Getting error message X`.
If you have none to add when creating a doc, leave this section in place
but commented out to help encourage others to add to it in the future. -->

Commit message:

Add docs for local requests whitelist
- Add documentation under security/webhooks since similar docs are
present there.

doc/system_hooks/system_hooks.md, after:

---
type: reference
---

# System hooks

Your GitLab instance can perform HTTP POST requests on the following events:

- `project_create`
- `project_destroy`
- `project_rename`
- `project_transfer`
- `project_update`
- `user_add_to_team`
- `user_remove_from_team`
- `user_create`
- `user_destroy`
- `user_failed_login`
- `user_rename`
- `key_create`
- `key_destroy`
- `group_create`
- `group_destroy`
- `group_rename`
- `user_add_to_group`
- `user_remove_from_group`

The triggers for most of these are self-explanatory, but `project_update` and `project_rename` deserve some clarification: `project_update` is fired any time an attribute of a project is changed (name, description, tags, etc.) *unless* the `path` attribute is also changed. In that case, a `project_rename` is triggered instead (so that, for instance, if all you care about is the repo URL, you can just listen for `project_rename`).

`user_failed_login` is sent whenever a **blocked** user attempts to login and denied access.

System hooks can be used, e.g. for logging or changing information in a LDAP server.

NOTE: **Note:**
We follow the same structure and deprecations as [Webhooks](../user/project/integrations/webhooks.md)
for Push and Tag events, but we never display commits.

## Hooks request example

**Request header**:

```
X-Gitlab-Event: System Hook
```

**Project created:**

```json
{
          "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:30:54Z",
          "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
          "event_name": "project_create",
                "name": "StoreCloud",
         "owner_email": "johnsmith@gmail.com",
          "owner_name": "John Smith",
                "path": "storecloud",
 "path_with_namespace": "jsmith/storecloud",
          "project_id": 74,
  "project_visibility": "private"
}
```

**Project destroyed:**

```json
{
          "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:30:58Z",
          "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
          "event_name": "project_destroy",
                "name": "Underscore",
         "owner_email": "johnsmith@gmail.com",
          "owner_name": "John Smith",
                "path": "underscore",
 "path_with_namespace": "jsmith/underscore",
          "project_id": 73,
  "project_visibility": "internal"
}
```

**Project renamed:**

```json
{
               "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:30:58Z",
               "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
               "event_name": "project_rename",
                     "name": "Underscore",
                     "path": "underscore",
      "path_with_namespace": "jsmith/underscore",
               "project_id": 73,
               "owner_name": "John Smith",
              "owner_email": "johnsmith@gmail.com",
       "project_visibility": "internal",
  "old_path_with_namespace": "jsmith/overscore"
}
```

Note that `project_rename` is not triggered if the namespace changes.
Please refer to `group_rename` and `user_rename` for that case.

**Project transferred:**

```json
{
               "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:30:58Z",
               "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
               "event_name": "project_transfer",
                     "name": "Underscore",
                     "path": "underscore",
      "path_with_namespace": "scores/underscore",
               "project_id": 73,
               "owner_name": "John Smith",
              "owner_email": "johnsmith@gmail.com",
       "project_visibility": "internal",
  "old_path_with_namespace": "jsmith/overscore"
}
```

**Project updated:**

```json
{
          "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:30:54Z",
          "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
          "event_name": "project_update",
                "name": "StoreCloud",
         "owner_email": "johnsmith@gmail.com",
          "owner_name": "John Smith",
                "path": "storecloud",
 "path_with_namespace": "jsmith/storecloud",
          "project_id": 74,
  "project_visibility": "private"
}
```

**New Team Member:**

```json
{
                  "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:30:56Z",
                  "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
                  "event_name": "user_add_to_team",
                "access_level": "Maintainer",
                  "project_id": 74,
                "project_name": "StoreCloud",
                "project_path": "storecloud",
 "project_path_with_namespace": "jsmith/storecloud",
                  "user_email": "johnsmith@gmail.com",
                   "user_name": "John Smith",
               "user_username": "johnsmith",
                     "user_id": 41,
          "project_visibility": "visibilitylevel|private"
}
```

**Team Member Removed:**

```json
{
                  "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:30:56Z",
                  "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
                  "event_name": "user_remove_from_team",
                "access_level": "Maintainer",
                  "project_id": 74,
                "project_name": "StoreCloud",
                "project_path": "storecloud",
 "project_path_with_namespace": "jsmith/storecloud",
                  "user_email": "johnsmith@gmail.com",
                   "user_name": "John Smith",
               "user_username": "johnsmith",
                     "user_id": 41,
          "project_visibility": "visibilitylevel|private"
}
```

**User created:**

```json
{
   "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:44:07Z",
   "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
        "email": "js@gitlabhq.com",
   "event_name": "user_create",
         "name": "John Smith",
     "username": "js",
      "user_id": 41
}
```

**User removed:**

```json
{
   "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:44:07Z",
   "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
        "email": "js@gitlabhq.com",
   "event_name": "user_destroy",
         "name": "John Smith",
     "username": "js",
      "user_id": 41
}
```

**User failed login:**

```json
{
  "event_name": "user_failed_login",
  "created_at": "2017-10-03T06:08:48Z",
  "updated_at": "2018-01-15T04:52:06Z",
        "name": "John Smith",
       "email": "user4@example.com",
     "user_id": 26,
    "username": "user4",
       "state": "blocked"
}
```

If the user is blocked via LDAP, `state` will be `ldap_blocked`.

**User renamed:**

```json
{
    "event_name": "user_rename",
    "created_at": "2017-11-01T11:21:04Z",
    "updated_at": "2017-11-01T14:04:47Z",
          "name": "new-name",
         "email": "best-email@example.tld",
       "user_id": 58,
      "username": "new-exciting-name",
  "old_username": "old-boring-name"
}
```

**Key added**

```json
{
    "event_name": "key_create",
    "created_at": "2014-08-18 18:45:16 UTC",
    "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
      "username": "root",
           "key": "ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABAQC58FwqHUbebw2SdT7SP4FxZ0w+lAO/erhy2ylhlcW/tZ3GY3mBu9VeeiSGoGz8hCx80Zrz+aQv28xfFfKlC8XQFpCWwsnWnQqO2Lv9bS8V1fIHgMxOHIt5Vs+9CAWGCCvUOAurjsUDoE2ALIXLDMKnJxcxD13XjWdK54j6ZXDB4syLF0C2PnAQSVY9X7MfCYwtuFmhQhKaBussAXpaVMRHltie3UYSBUUuZaB3J4cg/7TxlmxcNd+ppPRIpSZAB0NI6aOnqoBCpimscO/VpQRJMVLr3XiSYeT6HBiDXWHnIVPfQc03OGcaFqOit6p8lYKMaP/iUQLm+pgpZqrXZ9vB john@localhost",
           "id": 4
}
```

**Key removed**

```json
{
    "event_name": "key_destroy",
    "created_at": "2014-08-18 18:45:16 UTC",
    "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
      "username": "root",
           "key": "ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABAQC58FwqHUbebw2SdT7SP4FxZ0w+lAO/erhy2ylhlcW/tZ3GY3mBu9VeeiSGoGz8hCx80Zrz+aQv28xfFfKlC8XQFpCWwsnWnQqO2Lv9bS8V1fIHgMxOHIt5Vs+9CAWGCCvUOAurjsUDoE2ALIXLDMKnJxcxD13XjWdK54j6ZXDB4syLF0C2PnAQSVY9X7MfCYwtuFmhQhKaBussAXpaVMRHltie3UYSBUUuZaB3J4cg/7TxlmxcNd+ppPRIpSZAB0NI6aOnqoBCpimscO/VpQRJMVLr3XiSYeT6HBiDXWHnIVPfQc03OGcaFqOit6p8lYKMaP/iUQLm+pgpZqrXZ9vB john@localhost",
            "id": 4
}
```

**Group created:**

```json
{
   "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:30:54Z",
   "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
   "event_name": "group_create",
         "name": "StoreCloud",
  "owner_email": null,
   "owner_name": null,
         "path": "storecloud",
     "group_id": 78
}
```

`owner_name` and `owner_email` are always `null`. Please see <https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/39675>.

**Group removed:**

```json
{
   "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:30:54Z",
   "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
   "event_name": "group_destroy",
         "name": "StoreCloud",
  "owner_email": null,
   "owner_name": null,
         "path": "storecloud",
     "group_id": 78
}
```

`owner_name` and `owner_email` are always `null`. Please see <https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/39675>.

**Group renamed:**

```json
{
     "event_name": "group_rename",
     "created_at": "2017-10-30T15:09:00Z",
     "updated_at": "2017-11-01T10:23:52Z",
           "name": "Better Name",
           "path": "better-name",
      "full_path": "parent-group/better-name",
       "group_id": 64,
     "owner_name": null,
    "owner_email": null,
       "old_path": "old-name",
  "old_full_path": "parent-group/old-name"
}
```

`owner_name` and `owner_email` are always `null`. Please see <https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/39675>.

**New Group Member:**

```json
{
    "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:30:56Z",
    "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
    "event_name": "user_add_to_group",
  "group_access": "Maintainer",
      "group_id": 78,
    "group_name": "StoreCloud",
    "group_path": "storecloud",
    "user_email": "johnsmith@gmail.com",
     "user_name": "John Smith",
 "user_username": "johnsmith",
       "user_id": 41
}
```

**Group Member Removed:**

```json
{
    "created_at": "2012-07-21T07:30:56Z",
    "updated_at": "2012-07-21T07:38:22Z",
    "event_name": "user_remove_from_group",
  "group_access": "Maintainer",
      "group_id": 78,
    "group_name": "StoreCloud",
    "group_path": "storecloud",
    "user_email": "johnsmith@gmail.com",
     "user_name": "John Smith",
 "user_username": "johnsmith",
       "user_id": 41
}
```

## Push events

Triggered when you push to the repository, except when pushing tags.
It generates one event per modified branch.

**Request header**:

```
X-Gitlab-Event: System Hook
```

**Request body:**

```json
{
  "event_name": "push",
  "before": "95790bf891e76fee5e1747ab589903a6a1f80f22",
  "after": "da1560886d4f094c3e6c9ef40349f7d38b5d27d7",
  "ref": "refs/heads/master",
  "checkout_sha": "da1560886d4f094c3e6c9ef40349f7d38b5d27d7",
  "user_id": 4,
  "user_name": "John Smith",
  "user_email": "john@example.com",
  "user_avatar": "https://s.gravatar.com/avatar/d4c74594d841139328695756648b6bd6?s=8://s.gravatar.com/avatar/d4c74594d841139328695756648b6bd6?s=80",
  "project_id": 15,
  "project":{
    "name":"Diaspora",
    "description":"",
    "web_url":"http://example.com/mike/diaspora",
    "avatar_url":null,
    "git_ssh_url":"git@example.com:mike/diaspora.git",
    "git_http_url":"http://example.com/mike/diaspora.git",
    "namespace":"Mike",
    "visibility_level":0,
    "path_with_namespace":"mike/diaspora",
    "default_branch":"master",
    "homepage":"http://example.com/mike/diaspora",
    "url":"git@example.com:mike/diaspora.git",
    "ssh_url":"git@example.com:mike/diaspora.git",
    "http_url":"http://example.com/mike/diaspora.git"
  },
  "repository":{
    "name": "Diaspora",
    "url": "git@example.com:mike/diaspora.git",
    "description": "",
    "homepage": "http://example.com/mike/diaspora",
    "git_http_url":"http://example.com/mike/diaspora.git",
    "git_ssh_url":"git@example.com:mike/diaspora.git",
    "visibility_level":0
  },
  "commits": [
    {
      "id": "c5feabde2d8cd023215af4d2ceeb7a64839fc428",
      "message": "Add simple search to projects in public area",
      "timestamp": "2013-05-13T18:18:08+00:00",
      "url": "https://dev.gitlab.org/gitlab/gitlabhq/commit/c5feabde2d8cd023215af4d2ceeb7a64839fc428",
      "author": {
        "name": "Dmitriy Zaporozhets",
        "email": "dmitriy.zaporozhets@gmail.com"
      }
    }
  ],
  "total_commits_count": 1
}
```

## Tag events

Triggered when you create (or delete) tags to the repository.
It generates one event per modified tag.

**Request header**:

```
X-Gitlab-Event: System Hook
```

**Request body:**

```json
{
  "event_name": "tag_push",
  "before": "0000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
  "after": "82b3d5ae55f7080f1e6022629cdb57bfae7cccc7",
  "ref": "refs/tags/v1.0.0",
  "checkout_sha": "5937ac0a7beb003549fc5fd26fc247adbce4a52e",
  "user_id": 1,
  "user_name": "John Smith",
  "user_avatar": "https://s.gravatar.com/avatar/d4c74594d841139328695756648b6bd6?s=8://s.gravatar.com/avatar/d4c74594d841139328695756648b6bd6?s=80",
  "project_id": 1,
  "project":{
    "name":"Example",
    "description":"",
    "web_url":"http://example.com/jsmith/example",
    "avatar_url":null,
    "git_ssh_url":"git@example.com:jsmith/example.git",
    "git_http_url":"http://example.com/jsmith/example.git",
    "namespace":"Jsmith",
    "visibility_level":0,
    "path_with_namespace":"jsmith/example",
    "default_branch":"master",
    "homepage":"http://example.com/jsmith/example",
    "url":"git@example.com:jsmith/example.git",
    "ssh_url":"git@example.com:jsmith/example.git",
    "http_url":"http://example.com/jsmith/example.git"
  },
  "repository":{
    "name": "Example",
    "url": "ssh://git@example.com/jsmith/example.git",
    "description": "",
    "homepage": "http://example.com/jsmith/example",
    "git_http_url":"http://example.com/jsmith/example.git",
    "git_ssh_url":"git@example.com:jsmith/example.git",
    "visibility_level":0
  },
  "commits": [],
  "total_commits_count": 0
}
```

### Merge request events

Triggered when a new merge request is created, an existing merge request was
updated/merged/closed or a commit is added in the source branch.

**Request header**:

```
X-Gitlab-Event: System Hook
```

```json
{
  "object_kind": "merge_request",
  "user": {
    "name": "Administrator",
    "username": "root",
    "avatar_url": "http://www.gravatar.com/avatar/e64c7d89f26bd1972efa854d13d7dd61?s=80&d=identicon"
  },
  "project": {
    "name": "Example",
    "description": "",
    "web_url": "http://example.com/jsmith/example",
    "avatar_url": null,
    "git_ssh_url": "git@example.com:jsmith/example.git",
    "git_http_url": "http://example.com/jsmith/example.git",
    "namespace": "Jsmith",
    "visibility_level": 0,
    "path_with_namespace": "jsmith/example",
    "default_branch": "master",
    "ci_config_path": "",
    "homepage": "http://example.com/jsmith/example",
    "url": "git@example.com:jsmith/example.git",
    "ssh_url": "git@example.com:jsmith/example.git",
    "http_url": "http://example.com/jsmith/example.git"
  },
  "object_attributes": {
    "id": 90,
    "target_branch": "master",
    "source_branch": "ms-viewport",
    "source_project_id": 14,
    "author_id": 51,
    "assignee_id": 6,
    "title": "MS-Viewport",
    "created_at": "2017-09-20T08:31:45.944Z",
    "updated_at": "2017-09-28T12:23:42.365Z",
    "milestone_id": null,
    "state": "opened",
    "merge_status": "unchecked",
    "target_project_id": 14,
    "iid": 1,
    "description": "",
    "updated_by_id": 1,
    "merge_error": null,
    "merge_params": {
      "force_remove_source_branch": "0"
    },
    "merge_when_pipeline_succeeds": false,
    "merge_user_id": null,
    "merge_commit_sha": null,
    "deleted_at": null,
    "in_progress_merge_commit_sha": null,
    "lock_version": 5,
    "time_estimate": 0,
    "last_edited_at": "2017-09-27T12:43:37.558Z",
    "last_edited_by_id": 1,
    "head_pipeline_id": 61,
    "ref_fetched": true,
    "merge_jid": null,
    "source": {
      "name": "Awesome Project",
      "description": "",
      "web_url": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project",
      "avatar_url": null,
      "git_ssh_url": "git@example.com:awesome_space/awesome_project.git",
      "git_http_url": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project.git",
      "namespace": "root",
      "visibility_level": 0,
      "path_with_namespace": "awesome_space/awesome_project",
      "default_branch": "master",
      "ci_config_path": "",
      "homepage": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project",
      "url": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project.git",
      "ssh_url": "git@example.com:awesome_space/awesome_project.git",
      "http_url": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project.git"
    },
    "target": {
      "name": "Awesome Project",
      "description": "Aut reprehenderit ut est.",
      "web_url": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project",
      "avatar_url": null,
      "git_ssh_url": "git@example.com:awesome_space/awesome_project.git",
      "git_http_url": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project.git",
      "namespace": "Awesome Space",
      "visibility_level": 0,
      "path_with_namespace": "awesome_space/awesome_project",
      "default_branch": "master",
      "ci_config_path": "",
      "homepage": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project",
      "url": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project.git",
      "ssh_url": "git@example.com:awesome_space/awesome_project.git",
      "http_url": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project.git"
    },
    "last_commit": {
      "id": "ba3e0d8ff79c80d5b0bbb4f3e2e343e0aaa662b7",
      "message": "fixed readme",
      "timestamp": "2017-09-26T16:12:57Z",
      "url": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project/commits/da1560886d4f094c3e6c9ef40349f7d38b5d27d7",
      "author": {
        "name": "GitLab dev user",
        "email": "gitlabdev@dv6700.(none)"
      }
    },
    "work_in_progress": false,
    "total_time_spent": 0,
    "human_total_time_spent": null,
    "human_time_estimate": null
  },
  "labels": null,
  "repository": {
    "name": "git-gpg-test",
    "url": "git@example.com:awesome_space/awesome_project.git",
    "description": "",
    "homepage": "http://example.com/awesome_space/awesome_project"
  }
}
```

## Repository Update events

Triggered only once when you push to the repository (including tags).

**Request header**:

```
X-Gitlab-Event: System Hook
```

**Request body:**

```json
{
  "event_name": "repository_update",
  "user_id": 1,
  "user_name": "John Smith",
  "user_email": "admin@example.com",
  "user_avatar": "https://s.gravatar.com/avatar/d4c74594d841139328695756648b6bd6?s=8://s.gravatar.com/avatar/d4c74594d841139328695756648b6bd6?s=80",
  "project_id": 1,
  "project": {
    "name":"Example",
    "description":"",
    "web_url":"http://example.com/jsmith/example",
    "avatar_url":null,
    "git_ssh_url":"git@example.com:jsmith/example.git",
    "git_http_url":"http://example.com/jsmith/example.git",
    "namespace":"Jsmith",
    "visibility_level":0,
    "path_with_namespace":"jsmith/example",
    "default_branch":"master",
    "homepage":"http://example.com/jsmith/example",
    "url":"git@example.com:jsmith/example.git",
    "ssh_url":"git@example.com:jsmith/example.git",
    "http_url":"http://example.com/jsmith/example.git",
  },
  "changes": [
    {
      "before":"8205ea8d81ce0c6b90fbe8280d118cc9fdad6130",
      "after":"4045ea7a3df38697b3730a20fb73c8bed8a3e69e",
      "ref":"refs/heads/master"
    }
  ],
  "refs":["refs/heads/master"]
}
```

## Local requests in system hooks

[Requests to local network by system hooks](../security/webhooks.md) can be allowed
or blocked by an administrator.

<!-- ## Troubleshooting

Include any troubleshooting steps that you can foresee. If you know beforehand what issues
one might have when setting this up, or when something is changed, or on upgrading, it's
important to describe those, too. Think of things that may go wrong and include them here.
This is important to minimize requests for support, and to avoid doc comments with
questions that you know someone might ask.

Each scenario can be a third-level heading, e.g. `### Getting error message X`.
If you have none to add when creating a doc, leave this section in place
but commented out to help encourage others to add to it in the future. -->
