doc/development/contributing/design.md, before:

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc)*

- [Implement design & UI elements](#implement-design--ui-elements)
- [Style guides](#style-guides)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Implement design & UI elements

For guidance on UX implementation at GitLab, please refer to our [Design System](https://design.gitlab.com/).

The UX team uses labels to manage their workflow.

The  ~"UX" label on an issue is a signal to the UX team that it will need UX attention.
To better understand the priority by which UX tackles issues, see the [UX section](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux) of the handbook.

Once an issue has been worked on and is ready for development, a UXer removes the ~"UX" label and applies the ~"UX ready" label to that issue.

The UX team has a special type label called ~"design artifact". This label indicates that the final output
for an issue is a UX solution/design. The solution will be developed by frontend and/or backend in a subsequent milestone.
Any issue labeled ~"design artifact" should not also be labeled ~"frontend" or ~"backend" since no development is
needed until the solution has been decided.

~"design artifact" issues are like any other issue and should contain a milestone label, ~"Deliverable" or ~"Stretch", when scheduled in the current milestone.

To prevent the misunderstanding that a feature will be be delivered in the
assigned milestone, when only UX design is planned for that milestone, the
Product Manager should create a separate issue for the ~"design artifact",
assign the ~UX, ~"design artifact" and ~"Deliverable" labels, add a milestone
and use a title that makes it clear that the scheduled issue is design only
(e.g. `Design exploration for XYZ`).

When the ~"design artifact" issue has been completed, the UXer removes the ~UX
label, adds the ~"UX ready" label and closes the issue. This indicates the
design artifact is complete. The UXer will also copy the designs to related
issues for implementation in an upcoming milestone.

## Style guides

1.  [Ruby](https://github.com/bbatsov/ruby-style-guide).
    Important sections include [Source Code Layout][rss-source] and
    [Naming][rss-naming]. Use:
    - multi-line method chaining style **Option A**: dot `.` on the second line
    - string literal quoting style **Option A**: single quoted by default
1.  [Rails](https://github.com/bbatsov/rails-style-guide)
1.  [Newlines styleguide][newlines-styleguide]
1.  [Testing][testing]
1.  [JavaScript styleguide][js-styleguide]
1.  [SCSS styleguide][scss-styleguide]
1.  [Shell commands](../shell_commands.md) created by GitLab
    contributors to enhance security
1.  [Database Migrations](../migration_style_guide.md)
1.  [Markdown](http://www.cirosantilli.com/markdown-styleguide)
1.  [Documentation styleguide](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/development/documentation/styleguide.html)
1.  Interface text should be written subjectively instead of objectively. It
    should be the GitLab core team addressing a person. It should be written in
    present time and never use past tense (has been/was). For example instead
    of _prohibited this user from being saved due to the following errors:_ the
    text should be _sorry, we could not create your account because:_
1.  Code should be written in [US English][us-english]

This is also the style used by linting tools such as
[RuboCop](https://github.com/bbatsov/rubocop),
[PullReview](https://www.pullreview.com/) and [Hound CI](https://houndci.com).

---

[Return to Contributing documentation](index.md)

Commit message:

fix design artifact label to be product discovery. Was done here https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/merge_requests/20862 but not merged before this was moved.

doc/development/contributing/design.md, after:

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc)*

- [Implement design & UI elements](#implement-design--ui-elements)
- [Style guides](#style-guides)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Implement design & UI elements

For guidance on UX implementation at GitLab, please refer to our [Design System](https://design.gitlab.com/).

The UX team uses labels to manage their workflow.

The  ~"UX" label on an issue is a signal to the UX team that it will need UX attention.
To better understand the priority by which UX tackles issues, see the [UX section](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux) of the handbook.

Once an issue has been worked on and is ready for development, a UXer removes the ~"UX" label and applies the ~"UX ready" label to that issue.

There is a special type label called ~"product discovery". It represents a discovery issue intended for UX, PM, FE, and BE to discuss the problem and potential solutions. The final output for this issue could be a doc of requirements, a design artifact, or even a prototype. The solution will be developed in a subsequent milestone.

~"product discovery" issues are like any other issue and should contain a milestone label, ~"Deliverable" or ~"Stretch", when scheduled in the current milestone.

The initial issue should be about the problem we are solving. If a separate [product discovery issue](#product-discovery-issues) is needed for additional research and design work, it will be created by a PM or UX person. Assign the ~UX, ~"product discovery" and ~"Deliverable" labels, add a milestone and use a title that makes it clear that the scheduled issue is product discovery
(e.g. `Product discovery for XYZ`).

When the ~"product discovery" issue has been completed, the UXer removes the ~UX
label, adds the ~"UX ready" label and closes the issue. This indicates the
UX work for the issue is complete. The UXer will also copy any designs to related
issues for implementation in an upcoming milestone.

## Style guides

1.  [Ruby](https://github.com/bbatsov/ruby-style-guide).
    Important sections include [Source Code Layout][rss-source] and
    [Naming][rss-naming]. Use:
    - multi-line method chaining style **Option A**: dot `.` on the second line
    - string literal quoting style **Option A**: single quoted by default
1.  [Rails](https://github.com/bbatsov/rails-style-guide)
1.  [Newlines styleguide][newlines-styleguide]
1.  [Testing][testing]
1.  [JavaScript styleguide][js-styleguide]
1.  [SCSS styleguide][scss-styleguide]
1.  [Shell commands](../shell_commands.md) created by GitLab
    contributors to enhance security
1.  [Database Migrations](../migration_style_guide.md)
1.  [Markdown](http://www.cirosantilli.com/markdown-styleguide)
1.  [Documentation styleguide](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/development/documentation/styleguide.html)
1.  Interface text should be written subjectively instead of objectively. It
    should be the GitLab core team addressing a person. It should be written in
    present time and never use past tense (has been/was). For example instead
    of _prohibited this user from being saved due to the following errors:_ the
    text should be _sorry, we could not create your account because:_
1.  Code should be written in [US English][us-english]

This is also the style used by linting tools such as
[RuboCop](https://github.com/bbatsov/rubocop),
[PullReview](https://www.pullreview.com/) and [Hound CI](https://houndci.com).

---

[Return to Contributing documentation](index.md)
