doc/user/project/bulk_editing.md, before:

# Bulk editing issues and merge requests

> **Notes:**
>
> - A permission level of `Reporter` or higher is required in order to manage
>   issues.
> - A permission level of `Developer` or higher is required in order to manage
>   merge requests.

Attributes can be updated simultaneously across multiple issues or merge requests
by using the bulk editing feature.

![Bulk editing](img/bulk-editing.png)

NOTE: **Note:**
Bulk editing of issues and merge requests is only available at the project level.

To update multiple project issues or merge requests at the same time, navigate to
their respective lists and click **Edit issues** or **Edit merge requests** available
in the tab bar. This will open a sidebar on the right-hand side of your screen
where editable fields will be displayed. Checkboxes will also appear to the left-hand
side of eachissue or merge request for you to select the items you want to update.

Once you have selected all relevant items, choose the appropriate fields and their
values from the sidebar and click **Update all** to apply your changes.

Commit message:

Add documentation page for bulk editing group issue milestones
- Add new page to group docs for bulk editing issues
- Add link to new section to group index
- Amend bulk editing page at a project level to remove issues from note

doc/user/project/bulk_editing.md, after:

# Bulk editing issues and merge requests

> **Notes:**
>
> - A permission level of `Reporter` or higher is required in order to manage
>   issues.
> - A permission level of `Developer` or higher is required in order to manage
>   merge requests.

Attributes can be updated simultaneously across multiple issues or merge requests
by using the bulk editing feature.

![Bulk editing](img/bulk-editing.png)

NOTE: **Note:**
Bulk editing of merge requests is only available at the project level.
For more details, see [bulk editing group issues](../group/bulk_editing/index.md).

To update multiple project issues or merge requests at the same time:

1. Navigate to their respective list.

1. Click **Edit issues** or **Edit merge requests**.

    - This will open a sidebar on the right-hand side of your screen
    where editable fields will be displayed.

    - Checkboxes will also appear beside each issue or merge request.

1. Check the checkboxes of each items to be edited.
1. Choose the appropriate fields and their values from the sidebar.
1. Click **Update all**.
